"The aim of this course is to introduce PhB students to research issues in the Arts and Social Sciences and explore ideas surrounding research. The course will include discussion of how and why we undertake research, examining the character of research and various intellectual positions. The history and evolution of disciplinary approaches will be explored, alongside the place of interdisciplinary research.  Students will have the opportunity to consider the work of various scholars and theorists and their impact on ways of thinking about research."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
"The Advanced Studies courses are taken under the direction of the supervisor, but may involve teaching and learning from a wide variety of sources, including other ANU Colleges/Schools/Centres. In each case, the experience of the student will be oriented towards the development of a research career. Advanced Studies courses can be counted towards a major, with the permission of the discipline concerned and of the PhB Convenor."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
"The Advanced Studies courses are taken under the direction of the supervisor, but may involve teaching and learning from a wide variety of sources, including other ANU Colleges/Schools/Centres. In each case, the experience of the student will be oriented towards the development of a research career. Advanced Studies courses can be counted towards a major, with the permission of the discipline concerned and of the PhB Convenor."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
"The Advanced Studies courses are taken under the direction of the supervisor, but may involve teaching and learning from a wide variety of sources, including other ANU Colleges/Schools/Centres. In each case, the experience of the student will be oriented towards the development of a research career. Advanced Studies courses can be counted towards a major, with the permission of the discipline concerned and of the PhB Convenor."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
"The Advanced Studies courses are taken under the direction of the supervisor, but may involve teaching and learning from a wide variety of sources, including other ANU Colleges/Schools/Centres. In each case, the experience of the student will be oriented towards the development of a research career. Advanced Studies courses can be counted towards a major, with the permission of the discipline concerned and of the PhB Convenor."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
"This course is structured around projects designed to develop and deepen a range of skills and technologies that are coupled with conceptual strategies. The course introduces character development skills in animation or video. Students engage in a process of technical and conceptual exploration through individual responses to various topics, supported by an independent contextual research project. They begin to develop innovative and individual applications of animation or video processes. Workplace health and safety (WHS) instruction is an integral part of this course. This topic-based course alternates over two years (odd and even years). In odd years, the course focuses on staging and timing. Even years will investigate design and performance."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
"In this course students extend their creative research practice through the development of individual themes and work methods in personal projects that specialise in either animation, or video, or a hybrid of both. Students develop the foundation of an independent creative project.  Participation in workshops, demonstrations and discussions dealing with specific and relevant techniques and conceptual considerations, including scripting, production scheduling and storytelling, deepens the student's abilities, allowing them to demonstrate advanced skills in their projects. Occupational health and safety instruction is an integral part of this course. "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
"This course introduces students to the essential structures, techniques and processes of the digital workspace used throughout the digital arts and the creative industries.  This gives students a firm technical foundation for working and experimenting independently. This will develop the students ability to acquire new skills into the future, within the environment in which most animation and video projects, big and small, are carried out. The various industry-standard, software packages for animation and video will also be introduced. Basic equipment including cameras, recorders, and lights will also be introduced.  Instruction will be through technical classes and project-based assignments. Occupational health and safety instruction is an integral part of this course. "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
"This course is structured around projects designed to develop and deepen a range of skills and technologies that are coupled with conceptual strategies. Students engage in a process of technical and conceptual exploration through individual responses to various topics. They begin to develop innovative and individual applications of video or animation processes in relation to visual storytelling. A studio theory program encourages students to explore the visual, conceptual and technical possibilities offered by an engagement with aspects of the history and theory of animation and video in the visual arts field. Workplace health and safety (WHS) instruction is an integral part of this course. This topic-based course alternates over two years (odd and even years). In odd years, the course focuses on composition and colour. Even years will investigate pattern and rhythm."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
"This course provides an insight into the conceptual and visual possibilities of animation. It introduces students to fundamental animation theory, techniques and processes that are explored and developed in the context of a Major Work in Animation. Students will develop a Research and Development portfolio as a pre-production component to the creation of the Major Work. This portfolio is a comprehensive planning document that clarifies the theoretical, conceptual and technical scope of the Major Work. Typical areas of investigation at this level include, but are not restricted to, the following processes: staging, timing, deformation, keyframing, lighting, texturing, modelling and rendering. These processes may be implemented in a 2D computer animation, stop-frame animation or 3D computer animation, as per student preference. Occupational health and safety is approached professionally at this level."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
"This internship with available arts cultural institutions in the ACT is a prestigious and demanding program, in which the internship convenor places Art History and Curatorship Honours students. The internship is designed to provide the student with practical insights into the activities and the workings of an art museum or art gallery. The specific nature of the contact work will depend on the requirements of the art museum specialist supervisor, who may include curators, research program managers, registrars, art educators and learning and access programmers. The internship aims to provide an opportunity for learning about the field in preparation towards an art museum career."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
"This course will introduce key concepts in art history and art theory by examining how images and objects produce ways of seeing and knowing the world,  and by discussing how they construct and perpetuate cultural meaning through narrative, space and form. The Western classical tradition will be a particular focus, along with contrasting periods and styles including the Gothic, Baroque and Rococo, and non-Western art and design. The relevance of historical art to contemporary concerns and art practice will be a consistent theme of the course considered through a wide range of media,  including digital media, film, and architecture."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
"This course explores the techniques associated with creating works of art through history and the impact of display and changing context on the interpretation of art. Students will be introduced to various techniques and methods used to create works of art, incorporating where possible first hand observation of the processes. Using case studies students will investigate how changing display contexts influence public and critical appreciation of works of art."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
"The course will examine the emergence of the modern print in Early Modern Europe and trace its development up to the present day. Questions of technique, from etching, lithography and relief prints, through to photograph-based printmaking and the computer-digitised image, will be considered in considerable detail. Questions of what constitutes an original print and some of the theoretical implications of these definitions will be discussed. Although the course will examine the heritage of European and American printmaking, a major focus will be twentieth-century printmaking in Australia. Extensive use will be made of the major collections of Australian and international prints in public collections in Canberra. This course may be delivered as a semester length course or offered as an intensive."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
"Students will be introduced to ceramic materials & various hand building techniques.   With an emphasis on using different clay bodies and how they will be explored through referencing both historical & contemporary ceramics.\rA range of techniques exploring surface treatments will be used.  Occupational health and safety instruction is an integral part of this course."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
"This course introduces moulding, casting and model making as a means of developing and producing three-dimensional forms in clay. Students will be encouraged to explore ideas in relation to the articulation, replication and transformation of objects. The course spans a range of applications from moulding and casting associated with multiples and series (studio & industrial production) to casting one-off objects for sculptural outcomes. The impact of digital technologies on the manner in which ceramic artists and designers understand, develop, produce and replicate objects is examined."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
"In this course, students will investigate the relationships between surface and form in ceramic objects by exploring a range of approaches to the decoration of objects, the processes and technologies concerned, and their contribution to expressing ideas. Through project-based explorations, students will create a unique body of work with a focus on developing skills and knowledge of graphic and textural surface treatment in relation to the transformation of three dimensional ideas. Self-direction is emphasized in the development of skills that investigate, ideate and execute solutions. Students are expected to evidence substantial research, sophistication of design ideas and planning. This course alternates over two years (even and odd years). Even years will explore overglaze decoration. Odd years will explore underglaze decoration."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
"In this course students will explore the relationships between visual arts themes and areas of medium specific practice. Students will learn how to direct their personal ideas, developing skills while identifying and articulating contextual links. The outcomes for this course will be the development and shaping a personal methodolgy culminating in the creation of new works. Based on an Independent Work Proposal (IWP), students will explore and develop creative works relevant to their chosen project. Students will be supported though group sessions across several disciplines as well as tutorials, demonstrations and discussions within each Workshop. The strength of this course rests in its integration of traditional skills learning and contemporary approaches to visual arts practice. A student's documentation and communication of their project's evolution will be integral to their studies. A weekly and cross-disciplinary forum will provide for critical and contextual discussions relevant to their academic and visual arts development. Workplace Health and Safety instruction is an integral part of this course and will be handled within each Workshop."
"This course provides outstanding field-based visual art engagement opportunities with environments in and around the Canberra region. It offers supervised camping-based field trips that provide primary research opportunities to inform artwork and related studio development. Informed individuals, representatives and artists from the local and Aboriginal communities are available to enhance student understanding of cultural relationships with country. Field research and tutorial sessions inform the secondary studio development of a folio of artwork. Field trips enable the collection and synthesis of materials and visual imagery as well as the location for undertaking site-specific work."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
NA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
"With a focus on drawing the human form, this course will introduce students to a range of skills and conceptual issues relevant to all visual and design arts disciplines and provides a foundation for future specialised work. Weekly projects will introduce students to the application of two-dimensional representation, dealing with issues such as the human form, the dynamics of colour, design, composition, proportion and pictorial space."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
"This course builds upon fundamental knowledge of solid timber design and understanding of simple volumes to create more complex pieces to gather and present a collection of objects or ideas. Topics covered include concepts and historical examples of collecting and collections, objects presenting narrative and other intangible concepts, idea generation, approaches to making including working with compound mitre joints, sheet goods, and veneers, and further development of a range of techniques. Students will work both during and outside of class to envision and create several works of their own design. The course is taught by a combination of readings, lectures, discussions, demonstrations, and supervised practice that exposes students to a combination of technology, theory, history, and design and making processes. Workplace health and safety instruction is an integral part of this course."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
"This course builds upon fundamental knowledge of solid timber design and construction to explore a range of traditional and contemporary techniques to create rectilinear vessels that hold and contain and display other objects. Construction methods utilise a range of hand tools and machines. Techniques include machine timber preparation, dovetails, box joints, doors, drawers, and solid frame and panel. Processes include the mechanics for building drawers and hanging doors. Students will work both during and outside of class to design and make several pieces or components of a larger project. The course is taught by a combination of readings, lectures, discussions, demonstrations, and supervised practice that exposes students to a combination of technology, theory, history, and design and making processes. Workplace health and safety instruction is an integral part of this course."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
"This course introduces students to fundamental material properties and skills relevant to furniture design and construction in solid timber.  Topics introduced include characteristics of wood grain and movement, design considerations for solid timber, and appropriate methods for organic shaping, rectilinear joinery, assembly and finishing.  Students will work both during and outside of class to design and build a series of small projects utilizing both hand tools and machines, developing design skills, material awareness and technical capabilities.  The course is taught by a combination of readings, lectures, discussions, demonstrations, and supervised practice that exposes students to a combination of technology, theory, history, and design and making processes. Occupational health and safety instruction is an integral part of this course."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
"This course introduces students to the fundamental skills and knowledge for working with glass. Through theme-based projects framed by technical courses, students build awareness of processes and acquire hand skills in the areas of glass blowing, kiln forming and cold working. Integrated studio theory lectures introduce the historical context for contemporary glass and group discussions extend the integration of contextual knowledge to developing projects. Occupational health and safety instruction is integrated throughout the syllabus."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
"This course introduces students to specialised hot glass working and finishing techniques. Assignments foster the acquisition of skills for glass blowing, including colour work, component making and relevant cold working, with an emphasis on the execution of multiples in response to design briefs. Informed by technical and contextual knowledge, projects encourage students to explore developing design concepts through material investigations. Integrated demonstrations, lectures, class discussions and critiques provide students with a broader understanding of hot shop based historical and contemporary practices in the areas of craft, design and visual arts.This topic-based course alternates over two years (odd and even years). In odd years, the course focuses on historical precedents and projects and lectures interrogate the relevance of historical examples for a hot shop based design practice. In even years, the course explores current hot glass expression and projects and lectures examine hot glass based contemporary design practices. Workplace health and safety (WHS) instruction is integrated throughout the syllabus."                             
"This course introduces kiln casting processes and cold finishing techniques in glass for creative visual outcomes. Course projects introduce thematic ideas interwoven with technical processes. Projects are aimed at developing student's ability to work the material as well as reflect and develop concepts into their working method. The course is designed to accommodate learning for students with different levels of experience. Lectures and group discussions assist students to locate their experimental methods within the broader field of craft, design and visual arts practice.This is a topic-based course that alternates over two years (odd and even years). In odd years the class will introduce silicone retrievable mould making approaches. In even years this class will focus on mould making through retrievable plaster moulds.Workplace health and safety (WHS) instruction is integrated throughout the syllabus."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
NA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
"Gold & Silversmithing 1 introduces students to the basic skills, techniques and processes of metalworking and through a range of set exercises students are instructed in the use of basic hand tools. Occupational health and safety instruction is an integral part of this course. The program introduces the student to artistic practice and processes in the field through a studio theory segment."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
NA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
"Using the vessel as a canvas for exploration and innovation, this course will introduce students to material-based disciplines; clay, wood, glass, fabric, large scale metal and/or metal-smithing. Students will learn hand skills relevant to each area, and will  receive an introduction to historical context in relation to contemporary practice through a series of integrated contextual lectures. The range of processes and skills covered will provide broad material knowledge, hand skills and design awareness. Workplace health and safety (WHS) instruction is integrated throughout the syllabus. "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
"This course provides a foundation for future specialised work relevant to visual arts disciplines.  Weekly projects are designed to introduce students to a range of skills and conceptual issues relating to image and object making. The application of two-dimensional and three-dimensional representation and issues such as the dynamics of colour, design, composition and pictorial space will be explored."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
"Students can produce an extended research paper as an elective course or as an Art Theory subject provided that they have demonstrated the requisite writing and research skills and can show that their research topic is relevant to their Workshop concerns. ANU School of Art students on exchange may take this subject in fulfilment of an Art Theory course where the partner institution does not offer a satisfactory equivalent."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
"This course provides an introduction to immersive virtual reality. Students will be taken through the process of creating an interactive virtual environment intended for stereoscopic output and, in the second half of the course, will develop their own immersive and interactive project. The course introduces students to experience (UX) design, interaction design and interface design for immersive environments. The conceptual and experiential possibilities of immersive VR are explored and developed in the context of a creative work or a collaborative creative work. Students will develop a research and development portfolio as a pre-production component to the creation of the creative work. This portfolio is a comprehensive planning document that clarifies the theoretical, conceptual and technical scope of the creative work. Typical areas of investigation at this level include, but are not restricted to, interface design, interaction design, experience design and simple programming. Workplace health and safety is approached professionally at this level."                                                                                                  
"This course examines contemporary craft and design within a matrix of issues ranging from the inheritances of modernism to craft's important role within material culture. The debate concerning the unique art object versus production for industry is dealt with in terms of the related issues of new technology and media, craft skills, and new positions on function. Some other issues addressed in the course are historical revival, appropriation and the revival of ornamentalism, as well as an examination of the ways in which the meanings of craft practices are being explored across media and cultures."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
"How do we approach the writing of Art History? Methodologies of Art History introduces students to the history of our discipline; the ideas and theories that are essential knowledge for those wishing to pursue studies in Art History at a higher level. We will explore various approaches and examine in depth the methodological strategies adopted by Art Historians. These include iconographic, semiotic, formalist and materialist methodologies; critical theory, queer theory, feminist and post-colonial critiques; along with the historiography of the discipline focussing on the role of biography, the philosophy of aesthetics, and art criticism."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
"This course explores approaches to painting via processes of drawing, collage, photography and digital imaging, and emphasises the role of colour in composition. A series of exercises and projects students will learn the basic terminology and principles of painting eg: the dynamics of composition, the relations between picture plane and picture space, between colour and tone, illusion and materiality etc. Suitable for beginners and Painting majors."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
"This course begins with a focus on life painting, working with models in the studio. Further skills in drawing and oil painting are developed using both observational and interpretive approaches to colour and composition. This project fosters integration of material practice with growing conceptual and art historical knowledge. Studio Theory provides a conceptual, historical and contemporary context for this studio project through lectures and student presentations. Occupational health and safety instruction is an integral part of this course."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
"In this course each student consolidates their individual creative project, refining their painting skills and focused exploration of methods and processes appropriate to their objectives. Individual work develops in response to discussion with staff and peers, emphasising creative, critical and reflective thinking and the skills of pictorial analysis and interpretation. Drawing continues both as an adjunct to painting and as a creative form in itself. Student presentations foster each student's ability to articulate a contextual and critical framework for their developing practice. Occupational health and safety instruction is an integral part of this course."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
"This course introduces students to basic skills, techniques and processes of oil and acrylic painting. Studio projects focus on the observation and handling of tonal values, and colour systems and their application in the composition of paintings. Basic principles and concepts of representational and abstract painting are introduced and students are encouraged to learn from historical and contemporary examples. The projects involve working from the life model, landscape, still life, and imagination, with the focus on the colour and physical qualities of paint. Studio theory is delivered as a series of lectures."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
"In this course each student develops an individual creative project and is encouraged to build painting skills and explore methods and processes appropriate to their chosen theme. Individual work develops over the semester in response to discussion with staff and peers, emphasising creative, critical and reflective thinking and the skills of pictorial analysis and interpretation. Drawing continues both as an adjunct to painting and as a creative form in itself. Student presentations foster each student's ability to articulate a contextual framework for their developing practice. Occupational health and safety instruction is an integral part of this course."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
"Drawing on the declaration 'All artists borrow, great artists steal\" this studio-based course explores the diverse ways in which painters have drawn on influences from artists from one another, from other times and other cultures. This is a studio-based course supplemented by lectures and seminars exploring interesting examples of this kind of cross-fertilization across the history and contemporary practice of painting. In the studio students will explore the work of artists of interest to them as a means of enriching their own practice. Workplace health and safety (WHS) instruction is an integral part of this course."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
"In this course students extend their studio, laboratory or field based practice with additional skills in contextual, technical, conceptual, theoretical and historical research. They learn to enhance the conceptual and technical underpinnings of their creative work and develop additional themes and methods by researching the techniques, concerns and approaches of other artists, photographers, animators and filmmakers and theorists, both from contemporary international art and media, as well as from historical and archival resources. They will be able to position their creative work and practices in relation to historical precedents and contemporary discourses. Students will gain independent research skills which they will apply directly to enlarging their own practice. They will produce additional creative works which demonstrate their advance research skills."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
"This course introduces students to the conceptual and visual possibilities of photography. Students will be required to participate in technical programs and demonstrations aimed at developing an understanding and proficiency in the use of basic photographic and/or computer-based techniques and processes."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
"."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
"This course is structured around projects designed to introduce a range of skills and technologies coupled with conceptual and thematic aspects. The course teaches studio lighting, digital photography, inkjet printing, and critical thinking. Students engage in a process of investigation through individual responses to various topics, and undertake self-directed conceptual research. Workplace health and safety (WHS) instruction is an integral part of this course."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
"Students undertake a directed group based documentary project leading to an outcome in exhibition or book form. They further extend their creative research practice through the development of individual themes and work methods within an independent work proposal. Occupational health and safety instruction is an integral part of this course."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
"This course is structured around short projects designed to introduce a range of skills and technologies coupled with conceptual and thematic topics. Students engage in a process of investigation through individual responses to various set projects. Students undertake an introductory technical program in photographic printing and camera skills."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
"This Course is an introduction to a range of approaches to drawing through site and studio based exercises. Basic skills, techniques and processes, including occupational health and safety instruction (OH&S), are covered along with  the conceptual, historical and contextual background of contemporary drawing. Instruction is through weekly exercises in class and an independent research project."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
"This Course introduces traditional approaches to producing artist's books with a balance of book design theory, practical binding experience and self-directed project work. Students produce a range of simple 'book models' to demonstrate their understanding of course material."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
NA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
"This course is designed to introduce students to a range of skills and technologies including drypoint, mezzotint, aquatint, softground and hardground etching.  A range of conceptual and thematic aspects are addressed."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
"In this course students will be presented with  studio based exercises and individual research projects. Understanding of contemporary drawing will be extended through experimentation with materials, processes and format.  Conceptual, historical and contextual background will be extended.  Occupational health and safety instruction is an integral part of this course."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
"This course provides a context for students to refine their skills with the aim of creating a sophisticated synthesis of technique, concept and form. Critical thinking and creative problem solving are encouraged and applied to individual projects. These individual projects develop over the semester in response to critical discussion with staff and peers. Studio theory fosters each student's ability to articulate a contextual framework for their developing practice. Occupational health and safety instruction is an integral part of this course."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
"This Course is an introduction to basic skills, techniques and processes associated with Intaglio processes.  Conceptual, historical and contextual background will be presented. Instruction is through weekly studio projects. Occupational health and safety instruction is an integral part of this course."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
"This course presents key aspects of life drawing including observation and analysis of form, anatomical study, and composition. Students will explore a range of drawing materials and develop observational and technical skills. Conceptual and thematic issues are addressed and the program is structured around four topics designed to introduce a range of skills and processes. Workplace health and safety (WHS) instruction is an integral part of the course.This is a topic-based course which rotates over four semesters. Each semester focuses on one of the following  topics: Narrative & Character, Light & Space, Mark & Structure or Tone & Line."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
"This course provides instruction in basic and advanced screen printing techniques including autographic and photographic processes. Students have the opportunity to explore areas of interest through the development of individual projects. Experimentation with materials, scale and creative problem solving are encouraged. Workplace health and safety (WHS) instruction is an integral part of the course.This is a topic-based course which rotates over four semesters. Each semester focuses on one of the following  topics: Autographic to Photographic, Text & Image, Idea to Image or Street to Gallery."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
"Professional Practices aims to provide a basic understanding of the economic and legal framework of the art world: to provide an understanding of the skills necessary for an artist to practice professionally and to introduce resources available to artists to assist their economic survival in the production of art. This course may be delivered as a semester length course or offered as an intensive."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
"This course provides students with training in research principles and methods as they relate to practice-led research. The course covers research writing modes and methods, studio investigative processes and methodologies, critical thinking. Students experiment with skills relevant to individual research projects."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
"This course introduces students to installation as a conceptual framework for making and display, and assessment of sites spatially within interior and exterior environments. Focused tutorials will explore installation as a process of art making as well as an approach to siting larger works. Students are encouraged to work within their knowledge base relevant to medium as well as expand understandings of sculptural considerations.  Workplace Health and Safety (WHS) is an integral part of the course."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
"This course introduces students to the viability of found elements for the purposes of sculptural assemblage. Bricolage draws on assemblage and collage techniques and although often dismissed as junk art it has been part of Dada, Fluxus, Arte Povera and Post Modern dialogues. Bricolage can repurpose materials and create meaning bringing new perspectives and subversions to critique conventional contexts.Students will use basic hand tools and small power tools to produce a body of small works with particular emphasis on the material relationship between components and constructing narratives. Students will keep visual and technical diaries and studio theory aims to develop critical and evaluative skills to interpret and understand artworks within a contemporary and historical context. Workplace Health and Safety (WHS) instruction is an integral part of this course."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
"Constructed Form and Space is an exciting theme-based program that introduces students to essential skills, techniques and processes of three-dimensional form and space. Students will be given dynamic group instruction into the use of hand and power tools to construct sculpture from steel and wood. Through experimentation students explore many possibilities of working with these materials. Students will keep visual and technical diaries while Studio Theory aims to develop critical awareness and evaluative skills to interpret and understand artworks within a contemporary and historical context. Workplace Health and Safety (WHS) instruction is an integral part of this course."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
"This course enables students to gain an understanding of how they can develop ideas and define their interests as sculptors through emerging research strategies. Students apply higher-level skills and conceptual experimentation while critically engaging with historical and theoretical contexts relevant to their interests. Students develop and test ideas with the aim to build an enduring  sculpture practice. Students work independently as well as within tutorial groups. Studio theory aims to develop critical and evaluative skills to interpret and understand art works within a contemporary context. Workplace health and safety (WHS) instruction is an integral part of this course."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
"Sculpture, Space and Reproduction aims to develop student awareness of positive and negative space through the production of multiples and mould making processes. Students will be introduced to the practical and conceptual underpinnings of mould making while continuing to extend their knowledge of formal properties of casting. Historical and contemporary examples of artists using this approach to making will be referenced. Students will produce a series of approaches to mould making including silicon rubber and piece moulding to produce wax positives for future casting. Students will keep visual and technical diaries and studio theory aims to develop critical and evaluative skills to interpret and understand sculpture within a contemporary and historical context. Workplace health and safety (WHS) instruction is an integral part of this course."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
"This course will enable students to develop technical and conceptual skills and understandings relating to a range of drawing-based processes and approaches as they relate to textile practice. Students will extend these into an individual project that may be related to product or surface design development. Students will develop skills and knowledge relating to a range of drawing and graphic image/mark-making techniques for design development through taking an experimental and explorative approach. Students will also learn safe working practices and develop an understanding of relevant workplace health and safety (WHS) procedures to fulfil course requirements."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
"This course introduces students to basic textile surface treatments, including mineral and plant dyes, resist techniques and stitch. The conceptual underpinning of dye and surface decoration is introduced through discussion of historical and contemporary examples. Through research and experimentation with these techniques students will develop skills and knowledge relating to the rich historical, social and cultural meanings embedded in these processes and produce creative and conceptual projects. "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
"This course enables students to develop technical and conceptual skills and understandings relating to a range of hand-stitching processes and to explore a range of relevant design/image making techniques. Students will develop skills and knowledge relating to historical and contemporary applications of needlepoint, embroidery and other hand stitching methods, and use these as a means for the creative expression of ideas through a series of class and individual projects. Students will also learn safe working practices and develop an understanding of relevant workplace health and safety (WHS) procedures to fulfil course requirements."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
"The aim of this course is to encourage students to engage with different theoretical and historical frameworks for interpreting images. It will cover a wide range of primarily western theories of the image including marxism, feminism, psychoanalysis, and phenomenology. It also deals with the culture industry, film, the televisual and with recent theories of technology. Students will be encouraged to think about how the various different interpretative methods addressed in the course might relate to their studio."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
"This course opens up a rich archive of nineteenth to early twentieth century art in Australia and Europe. Drawing together genres and themes in Victorian and Edwardian art and design, the course explores changes from historicist and narrative art to the Pre-Raphaelites and the Aesthetes, and exoticism, impressionism and post-impressionism. Central to these movements is the industrialisation of societies, and the ways the shifts were expressed in art and design through visual constructions of nature and culture, history and myth, and the arts and crafts in the British Empire and Australia."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
"This course provides an insight into the conceptual and visual possibilities of video. It introduces students to fundamental video theory, techniques and processes that are explored and developed in the context of a creative work in video. Students will develop a research and development portfolio as a pre-production component to the creation of the creative Work. This portfolio is a comprehensive planning document that clarifies the theoretical, conceptual and technical scope of the creative work. Typical areas of investigation at this level include, but are not restricted to, storyboarding, pre-production, lighting, editing, and installation. Workplace health and safety is approached professionally."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
NA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
