"This course provides an opportunity for ANU students to undertake the semester-long Australian Consortium for In Country Indonesian Studies (ACICIS) International Relations Program (IRP), which is taught by one of Indonesia's foremost IR Departments, located at Parahyangan Catholic University (UNPAR) in Bandung, West Java. Taught in English, the IRP provides students with an understanding of international relations at the regional and global levels, as seen from an Indonesian perspective, as well as a unique opportunity for non-Indonesian speakers to experience in-country study at an Indonesian university.Students will be able to select from a range of courses, on subjects that include comparative politics, diplomacy, foreign policy, strategic studies and international relations.ANU will provide students with a pre-departure briefing, online academic community building while in-country and a debriefing session on return to Canberra. Students participating in this course will receive funding support through the ANU College of Asia and the Pacific Engage Asia Travel Guarantee."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
"The Bachelor of Philosophy (Honours) or PhB is a unique and innovative research-focused degree for intellectually ambitious students who want to study at the highest level. Every student receives intensive individual attention and is supported by a mentor. "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
"The Bachelor of Philosophy (Honours) or PhB is a unique and innovative research-focused degree for intellectually ambitious students who want to study at the highest level. Every student receives intensive individual attention and is supported by a mentor. "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
"The Bachelor of Philosophy (Honours) or PhB is a unique and innovative research-focused degree for intellectually ambitious students who want to study at the highest level. Every student receives intensive individual attention and is supported by a mentor. "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
"The aim is to recognise the efforts of high-achieving students in the organising committee of ANU Asia Pacific Week and allow the student to engage deeply with one conference panel. The conference is an opportunity for students to work closely with the college and apply the knowledge they have acquired into running a week-long academic event. This involves placement in one portfolio (Logistics, Delegates, Media and Marketing, Finance, Content and Special Project) and 10 months commitment to the projects and duties of that portfolio. During the placement the student will receive advice and direction from College Staff and the course convenor."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
"This course is an introduction to the Asia and Pacific region. Asia, home to around forty percent of the world's population, is a region of extraordinary natural and cultural diversity. It is characterised by both striking patterns of continuity across time and space, as well as far-reaching and rapid social and physical change. Students will be introduced to this diversity first through an overview of the people and places across the region. This provides the basis for exploring people's interactions with their natural environment and the technologies they use to sustain their lives, as well as for investigating the dynamics of power and resistance, and the processes of nationalism and globalisation. We will consider how each of these have shaped, and continue to shape, Asia's past, present and future. The course will encompass both discussion of big questions around these themes, as well as case studies presented by some of the most distinguished ANU experts on Asia and the Pacific.Asia and the Pacific: Power, diversity and change is one of two required foundational courses for the Bachelor of Asian Studies degree. It is also highly suitable for students from other programs who would like to learn the basics of understanding the Asia-Pacific region, and assists them in gaining what is sometimes called \"Asian literacy\", a valuable attribute in any career in the 21st century."                                                                                   
"This course deals with key aspects of culture, media and discourse in China since 1949. It does not assume prior knowledge of China or the Chinese language.  The course has two interrelated parts.  In the first part, it examines the most colossal attempt at 'mind control' in human history - the attempt by the Communist Party between 1949 and 1978 to create new, revolutionary human beings by imposing centralised control of language and discourse.  What were the origins of this attempt?  How did it affect people's behaviour? How did it affect Chinese culture?  And how successful was it in changing people's ideas and values?  In the second part of the course it will explore the enormous changes that have occurred since the beginning of the Reform Era in 1978.  Why did Deng and his successors relax controls over language and discourse?  What social and economic changes have encouraged the emergence of new discourses and cultural forms?  What opportunities have been created by the explosive growth of the internet?  How does the government continue to regulate the media and manipulate public debate?  How have people sought to get around the restrictions?  What critical discourses still manage to flourish?  And why, when so many things have changed in China, does the Chinese Communist Party still use the traditional language of Marxism-Leninism-Mao Zedong Thought? The answers to questions like these offer many insights into continuity and change in China since 1949."
"This course investigates the various types of democratic, semi-democratic and non-democratic governance in Southeast Asia, and pays particular attention to the electoral systems applied in each state. After introducing some key theoretical debates on democracy and elections, the course will examinine the state of democracy in the Philippines, Malaysia, Thailand, Singapore, Cambodia and Indonesia. In doing so, the course measures each country's level of electoral competitiveness, political rights and civil liberties. Subsequently, we will analyse non-democratic regimes in Southeast Asia (Vietnam, Burma and Singapore), and discuss how these states instrumentalise elections in order to gain popular legitimacy. In approaching its subject, the course also analyses the socio-political environment of democratic and authoritarian rule in Southeast Asian states, discussing in particular the role of the media, social inequality, and gender issues. "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
"Two rapid and dynamic trends face a current generation of students: the rise of Asia as an economic and political powerhouse, and the digital revolution. "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
"A rapidly-changing media landscape is opening up new digital frontiers for academics to get their research out to key audiences, including policymakers. As the reach and impact of conventional and traditional media declines due to digital disruption, new media is rapidly evolving. In the academic space, reaching key audiences means engaging with them in the many places that they now get their news, views and analysis. ANU is a pioneer and leader in online academic blogs - which have become a key platform to achieve this."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
"This course offers research training for Honours students working on projects in the Asian and Pacific humanities. It introduces important historical and current debates in the critical humanities, exposes students to different disciplinary perspectives and methods, and nurtures the process of independent research, project design, and writing. Indicative topics include the history of Asia-Pacific studies, debates between area studies and disciplines, postcolonial critique, interdisciplinary theories of gender and sexuality, and theories of power and culture. This course aims to help students become confident, independent, and collegial scholarly researchers."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
"This course is an introduction to the history and culture of women in Korea.  The major focus of the course is on the various cultural, religious, political and economic factors that have served to define womanhood and change the role and status of women.  The historical context that contributed to changes in the standing of women can be divided into three periods: 1) the Choson dynasty (1392-1910), when Confucian-prescribed gender ideologies prevailed; 2) the Japanese colonial period (1910-1945), during which women's movements were considered secondary to the movement for national independence, but which nonetheless saw some serious attempts to invent a new image for women; and 3) Independence (1945-present), which was marked by two major changes: the nation was divided into North Korea and South Korea; and South Korea begin a drive toward modernization in the midst of its own internal political struggles.  The status of South Korean women has seen rapid changes since 1948 in terms of gender equity, education and work, and yet, women still face many barriers and challenges. North Korean women have also experienced major transformations in their relationship with the family and society since 1948 in the process of socialist nation building.  "                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
"Global Semester is a highly flexible course designed for students to undertake a range of studies at an ANU exchange partner for up to six months and count it towards the completion of ANU majors, minors or electives. Students can nominate to undertake disciplinary studies in English, as well as language studies or disciplinary studies in their target language.Global Semester is a variable unit course, so it can accommodate a breakdown of disciplinary or language studies to count towards Asia Pacific Studies majors, minors or electives, or it can accommodate partial credit if students are nominating to split their semester exchange program across two degrees.Students can apply to undertake Global Semester at any ANU exchange partner throughout the world. However, students undertaking a semester of exchange at an ANU exchange partner in Asia may wish to enrol in the Semester in Asia course. A full list of ANU exchange partners can be found at: http://students.anu.edu.au/think/global.phpAs part of the application process, students will be asked to outline how the proposed study at the ANU exchange partner will count towards the majors, minors and/or electives in their ANU degree(s). "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
"History is vital to our understanding of the current international relations of Northeast Asia. This course aims to deepen students' understanding of the international relations of Northeast Asia from the mid-nineteenth century to the present. It will especially focus on the nature of the regional order, its place in a broader global order, and diverse perspectives on key events in the international relations of the region. It will focus on Japan, China, and Korea as the core of this region, and examine their relationship with each other, as well as with other key powers, such as the USSR/Russia, the United States and Britain, and international organizations. While the course refers to key concepts of International Relations, it also incorporates recent work in International History, which critically examines these concepts. It also stresses the transnational networks of people and ideas, as well as the meaning of historical memory in international relations of the region."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
"This course focuses on political and social developments in Indonesia since 1945.  It summarises the major political events and figures of the post-independence period before examining specific themes such as the role of the military, Islamic movements, the state Pancasila ideology, criminality and violence, gender, foreign policy and the position of minorities.  Discussion of different scholarly interpretations of these events and themes will form a major part of the course."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
"This course examines Indonesia's foreign and security policy against the background of the country's decades-long, but still unfulfilled quest for a larger global role. As the nation with the fourth-largest population in the world, and as the third-largest democracy, Indonesia rightly aspires to expand its influence and have a greater say in international affairs. But both its foreign policy and its regional and international security policy have often been criticised as insufficient to achieve this goal. What, then, have been the hurdles to Indonesia's development into a key diplomatic and security actor? What have successive Indonesian presidents done to overcome these obstacles and increase Indonesia's international weight? How do Indonesia's neighbors, including Australia, view Indonesia's foreign and security potential, and its limitations? What is the most likely trajectory of Indonesia's foreign and security role in the decades ahead?"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
"This course provides students with an opportunity to undertake an internship relating to their political, strategic or international relations studies in Asia Pacific Affairs. The course can be taken as a 6 to 24 unit variable, depending on the length and workload within the internship. Participants will work with an academic supervisor at ANU to identify learning outcomes as well as assessment requirements for their internship under the overall direction of the course convenor. The course will offer ongoing opportunities involving a competitive application and selection process each year, as well as one-off opportunities. All ongoing opportunities within this course will be outlined in the Other Information section."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
"This course is an introduction to the languages of Asia and the Pacific that explores the diversity, complexity and vitality of  languages of the regions to our north and east. The course uses case studies from a number of countries and societies to cover topics such as: the history and power of spoken and written forms of language (eg. in China, Japan, India, Papua New Guinea); language choice and language politics in multilingual societies (eg. India, Indonesia, East Timor); the influence of thought and culture on language use (eg. politeness in Korean and Indonesian); and the impact of language contact in multilingual societies, including English in Asia and the Pacific, and Asian and Pacific languages in the world. The course introduces concepts, theories and models from linguistics that allow us to develop a nuanced view of the region through the lens of language."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
"This course is an introduction to the languages of Asia and the Pacific that explores the diversity, complexity and vitality of  languages of the regions to our north and east. The course uses case studies from a number of countries and societies to cover topics such as: the history and power of spoken and written forms of language (eg. in China, Japan, India, Papua New Guinea); language choice and language politics in multilingual societies (eg. India, Indonesia, East Timor); the influence of thought and culture on language use (eg. politeness in Korean and Indonesian); and the impact of language contact in multilingual societies, including English in Asia and the Pacific, and Asian and Pacific languages in the world. The course introduces concepts, theories and models from linguistics that allow us to develop a nuanced view of the region through the lens of language."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
"We are being lied to at every turn. Our perceptions of the world are manipulated and things that matter to us are decided behind a veil of secrecy. At the same time, accusations of lying, 'false news' and conspiracy undermine social trust. Drawing especially from examples in and about Asia, this course examines how and why lies are constructed, why we believe them (and why we often want to believe them) and how we can use investigative techniques to get closer to the truth. This course utilises a historical approach combined with contemporary examples to understand the role of lies, conspiracy, and propaganda."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
"This course is an introduction to historical linguistics, and how the study of linguistic histories informs our more general understanding of the history of Asia and the Pacific - particularly when we go back beyond the reach of written records. Asia and the Pacific forms the most linguistically diverse area in the world, and past and present societies across the two regions are typically identified by the kind of languages they speak. The course explores the status and internal diversity of a number of different language groupings, including language families such as Sino-Tibetan, Austroasiatic, Tai-Kadai and Austronesian, linguistic areas such as India and Mainland Southeast Asia languages whose historical connections remain debated, such as Japanese and Korean. It considers what language histories can tell us about the non-linguistic histories of Asia-Pacific societies. The course aims to introduce students to the basic principles and methods of historical linguistics, including processes of language change and language contact, as well as the ways in which linguistic development reflects socio-cultural change. We will use language history as a starting point for broader discussions that incorporate research from anthropology, archaeology and population genetics, asking how the different disciplines tell similar or different stories about the Asia-Pacific past."                                                                                                 
"This course is designed to give students an overview of contemporary South Korean politics snd society in the period from the 1960s to the present. The course reviews recent socio-political changes in Korea including Korea's rapid economic development in the 1960s and in the 1970s, democratisation and the resurrection of civil society in the 1980s, and globalisation and neoliberal reforms since the 1990s. This course will explore relevant theories and concepts in the social sciences (mainly political science and sociology) to analyse these changes in Korea. During the tutorials the students will be given an opportunity to discuss in depth some pressing political and social issues in Korea, seek parallels in other Asian and Western societies and consider possible solutions to these problems at structural, institutional and behavioral levels."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
"An individual course of readings on a topic identified by the student in consultation with the coordinator. The focus will be on English language material but students with particular Asian language skills will be encouraged to use them where possible. Fortnightly meetings to discuss material covered will be on a one-to-one basis."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
NA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
"The course is for students who have demonstrated an upper intermediate level of proficiency or above in one of the major Southeast or South Asian languages taught in the School (Hindi, Indonesian, Thai, Vietnamese or Sanskrit). Enrolled students conduct an independent research project under the supervision of a member of academic staff, on a common theme that may change from semester to semester. Students will arrange to meet with their supervisor on a regular basis to create a project in their target language. Enrolment in this course is contingent on the availability of appropriate supervisors."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
"Semester in Asia is a highly flexible course designed for students to undertake a range of studies at an ANU exchange partner for up to six months and count it towards the completion of ANU majors, minors or electives. Students can nominate to undertake disciplinary studies in English, as well as language studies or disciplinary studies in their target language.Semester in Asia is a variable unit course, so it can accommodate a breakdown of disciplinary or language studies to count towards Asia Pacific Studies majors, minors or electives, or it can accommodate partial credit if students are nominating to split their semester exchange program across two degrees.Students can apply to undertake Semester in Asia at any ANU exchange partner in Asia. Students who wish to undertake a semester of exchange outside the Asia region are encouraged to apply for the Global Semester course. A full list of ANU exchange partners can be found at: http://students.anu.edu.au/think/global.phpAs part of the application process, students will be asked to outline how the proposed study at the ANU exchange partner will count towards the majors, minors and/or electives in their ANU degree(s). "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
"This course traces the history of Japan from the 17th century to the present, examining the dynamics of the early modern period (Tokugawa era), the Meiji revolution, the political, social and economic transformations of the early 20th century, the tumultuous 1930s and 1940s, and the dynamics of the post-1945 era.  Thematic issues to be covered include nation- and empire-building, state-society relations, total war and defeat, the Allied Occupation, Japan in the Cold War, socio-economic and demographic change, intellectual developments, and Japan's international relations. A key emphasis of the course will be to understand and to position Japan in wider regional and global processes. The course will focus closely on the approaches historians have employed in studying Japan's modern history.  In other words, what social and political theories have historians deployed and why? How have these approaches changed and/or enriched our understanding of modern Japan? The course will pay close attention to some of the ongoing controversies and debates in the historiography of modern Japan.  Students will be expected to think critically about both the history of Japan and the approaches historians have adopted. "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
"This course traces the historical development of Asia's diverse political systems. It examines underlying geo-political realities and their implications for political structure and focusses on the religious and political systems of thought that have shaped Asian political systems, especially regarding leadership, the family, ethnicity, social class and age. The course commences with the emergence of civilization in Asia, examines political structures as they were influenced by Hinduism, Buddhism, Confucianism, Islam and Christianity,  the transformation of ethnic and national identities brought about in the era of western imperialism, and the assertion of new political ideals inspired by communism, liberalism, religions and reinterpretations of the past."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
"Who rules China, and how? This course examines the politics of contemporary China. It traces the cultural and historical legacies affecting political life and the political processes through which nation-state, citizen-subjects and the organizations and institutions of governance are constructed and interact; examines the major political challenges confronting China today; and explores debates over the concepts used to explain Chinese politics, both in China and in the field of comparative politics."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
"Year in Asia is the ANU College of Asia and the Pacific's flagship program for in-country study, providing students with an opportunity to immerse themselves in the language and culture of their chosen country for up to 12 months. Students study a combination of language and disciplinary studies at a partner institution, and complete a final research project in the target language on return to ANU.This course is the first course in a two-semester sequence  in-country study program in the region appropriate to their language/contextual major. Country, language, and institutional environments differ from region to region, and within countries. The type of language training and disciplinary study offered will vary as students are matched with institutions appropriate to their backgrounds, needs, abilities and interests.  This course, along with its second semester counterpart, will provide a coherent structure for these different experiences."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
