"This course is divided into two parts, both parts building on the material taught in CHEM 2209. The foundations in Solid State Chemistry are expanded to cover topics in structural characterisation, local crystal chemistry and properties of selected functional inorganic materials."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
"Chemistry has changed rapidly over the past decades and techniques that were once exclusively applied to small molecules are now routinely used with larger molecules, such as proteins. This course will be the first introduction of students to the field of chemical biology,  which spans chemistry, biology and physics. Biological molecules and systems are analysed and modified using chemical principles and techniques."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
"This course will provide students with a well-rounded, integrated background in chemistry at the second year level covering key concepts in the areas of inorganic, organic and physical chemistry with a particular emphasis on their relevance to biological processes. The course is largely divided into two components: organic and coordination chemistry. The organic chemistry component will focus on an in-depth analysis of several types of organic reactions from a mechanistic and stereochemical outcome viewpoint with particular reference to natural products and the synthesis of compounds of biological and commercial importance. The primary focus of the coordination chemistry component will be on the stability, bonding, properties and reactivity of coordination compounds and their importance in biological systems. Laboratory: Development of key laboratory techniques in synthetic organic and inorganic chemistry; their applications in separation, synthesis, and analysis of organic and coordination compounds."                      
"The following syllabus provides a general guide to the topics to be discussed:"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
"A supervisor, who will guide the candidate in the selection of a suitable program of study and who will direct the research project, will be appointed for each honours candidate. The program of study includes a special schedule of lecture courses, details of which will be made available within the School. Candidates will normally be able to select their general field of investigation.Attendance at colloquia held in the School constitutes a part of the program and the candidates will be required to prepare and deliver seminars describing the background to (first seminar) and results from (second seminar) their research project. Candidates must submit a written report (thesis) describing the method and results of their investigation."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
"Physical chemistry aims to understand the structure, properties and transformations of matter, from bulk behavior down to mechanisms at the molecular level. It is the role of the physical chemist to collect, collate and analyze experimental data from all branches of chemistry and to construct predictive models. As such, physical chemistry underlies much of modern science and is a motor driving advances in a very wide range of fields. Building on information and concepts from chemistry, physics and mathematics, physical chemistry contributes to and is stimulated by areas as diverse as medicine, molecular biology, biochemistry, molecular engineering, chemical engineering, materials science and earth sciences.\" (Société Francaise de Chimie - Division de Chimie Physique)The course will provide the foundations of physical chemistry, with a strong focus on developing a skill base necessary for the construction, analysis, and interpretation of experimental data, as well as a practical understanding and use of predictive models. "
"This course is designed to develop an understanding and appreciation of the analytical techniques inherent in modern organic and biological chemistry. Lectures will be focused on the understanding of modern nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy (NMR) in structure determination and cover both theoretical and practical aspects."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
"The focus of this course is on the synthesis, structure and bonding, properties and reactivity of main group organometallics (including Grignard reagents, organolithium reagents, organophosphorus compounds, etc), organotransition metal chemistry and organometallic catalysis. The laboratory component of the course will aim to develop skills in the handling of air-sensitive compounds using the Schlenk technique and the purification of compounds using chromatographic techniques."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
"A selection of research projects from within the Discipline of Chemistry will be on offer.  Students will undertake their individual project within a research group in the College of Physical Sciences under the supervision of the group leader. This is an Honours Pathway Course.  Completion of particular chemistry C courses may be a requirement  for certain of the projects on offer."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
"This course is designed to develop an understanding of spectroscopy and its application in the elucidation of the structures of chemical compounds.  This will include aspects of infrared spectroscopy, UV-visible spectroscopy, nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy , mass spectrometry and X-ray crystallography.  The course also provides a higher level description of the fundamentals of chemical spectroscopy and molecular symmetry, structure and bonding. It develops the ideas necessary to understand spectroscopy from a quantum mechanical perspective. It gives an introduction to molecular orbital theory and the use of symmetry in understanding molecular properties, as applied to simple chemical systems."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
"From designed structures to natural products, medicinal agents to functional materials to biological targets, organic substances are everywhere! The purpose of this course is to teach how to analyse structures and devise ways to make them. The lecture material will focus on the most important structures, reactions and mechanisms, topics and themes of contemporary Organic Chemistry and highlight applications of organic compounds in medicine. Synthesis design and strategy, the latest methods, the most up-to-date biologically active compounds and other fascinating molecules will all be covered."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
