"Students will conduct a project, under supervision, that will act as a capstone to their studies in Advanced Computing. The activities in the course will normally include some combination of reading, writing,  artefact construction  and presentation, as appropriate to their project's topic.  The learning objectives, project overview and assessment arrangements will be specified at the outset using the Research School of Computer Science form 'Independent Study Contract'."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
"The course provides student exposure to current professional practice in research and development. It consists of 60 days of work at an approved organization, organized by the student in conjunction with the course convenor. The duration of this must be in a computing research and development and professional context. The course is graded as satisfactory or unsatisfactory."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
"The course introduces students to some fundamentals of research methodology, and gives students first hand experience by having them carry out a small research project, under close supervision by a member of academic staff. The course comprises a series of lectures which cover the following topics: how to define a research problem; writing a research paper and report; how to give a seminar; the use of search tools and databases to find relevant literature; scientific methods in practice; design of an experiment. Students complete an individual research project which requires them to carry out background reading and literature review, and to prepare a research report and give a seminar at the end of the course."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
"This course provides the student with project experience to complement the studies of the software development process in the courses COMP2100, and COMP2130, combined with research and development experience in COMP2560. Students work in small groups and participate in all the research and development phases of a project producing an innovative and substantial software system. This includes research planning, experimentation and evaluation phases followed by the development phases (requirements analysis, design, construction, testing and documentation). As well, each group has to address the control of this process by constructing and following a detailed management plan."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
"The course introduces students to some fundamentals of research methodology, and gives students first hand experience by having them carry out a small research project, under close supervision by a member of academic staff. The course comprises a series of lectures which cover the following topics: how to define a research problem; writing a research paper and report; how to give a seminar; the use of search tools and databases to find relevant literature; scientific methods in practice; design of an experiment. Students complete a research project which requires them to carry out background reading and literature review, and to prepare a research report and give a seminar at the end of the course."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
"Students will conduct an individual research project under the close supervision of one or more academic staff. Projects will, at least in part, require the application of theoretical or experimental research techniques. In particular, students will be expected to conduct and present a survey of the literature relevant to the research topic."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
"Artificial intelligence is the science that studies and develops methods of making computers more /intelligent/. The focus of this course is on core AI techniques for search, knowledge representation and reasoning, planning, and designing intelligent agents. The course also aims to give an overview of the historical, philosophical, and logical foundations of AI."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
"Bio-inspired Computing is the combination of computational intelligence and collective intelligence. These computational methods are used to solve complex problems, and modeled after design principles encountered in natural / biological systems, and tend to be adaptive, reactive, and distributed. The goal of bio-inspired computing is to produce computational tools with enhanced robustness, scalability, flexibility and which can interface more effectively with humans. "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
"This course studies the standard models for the layered approach to communication between autonomous machines in a network and the main characteristics of data communication (transmission protocols) for the lower layers. It introduces several application layer protocols from a distributed systems viewpoint, and considers alternative lower layer methods such as ATM, and problem areas in the Internet protocol suite.The following topics are included: introduction to communication network architectures (protocol hierarchies, layered services, the OSI model); the physical layer (transmission media, signal representation, limits to data capacity); the data link layer (error detection and recovery, point-to-point protocols); the medium access layer (protocols for Local Area Networks and satellite communication); the network layer (routing algorithms, congestion control); internetworking (addressing, internetwork routing and protocols, quality of service); the transport layer (connection-oriented transport layer services and protocols); application protocols for distributed systems."
"This course lays the foundations for the understanding of CPU architectures, networking and operating systems. Additionally, it introduces topics which cut across many computer systems, such as cross-layer communication and basic concurrency (as well as basic ideas of virtualization and efficiency through proximity)."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
"This course will enable students from computer science and software engineering to develop competencies expected of professionals working in business, government or the broader community. The course coordinator will maintain a list of available internship opportunities for which students can apply. A holistic selection process will be used to select the best applicant for each opportunity. Students can also propose internships, but these will always be established following negotiations between the ANU and potential host organisations, and then offered to students along with other opportunities."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
"The honours program consists of a coursework component and a project component, of equal weight. The coursework component involves courses in advanced aspects of the computing discipline, which in recent years have been drawn from: architecture of parallel systems, artificial intelligence, computational logic, algorithms, object oriented databases, programs for parallel computer systems, formal aspects of software engineering, software engineering project, document technologies and automated reasoning. The project component involves a substantial individual project under detailed academic supervision. A formal thesis is submitted (nominally 10,000 words), and a seminar is presented."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
"The honours program consists of a coursework component and a project component, of equal weight. The coursework component involves courses in advanced aspects of the computing discipline, which in recent years have been drawn from: architecture of parallel systems, artificial intelligence, computational logic, algorithms, object oriented databases, programs for parallel computer systems, formal aspects of software engineering, software engineering project, document technologies and automated reasoning. The project component involves a substantial individual project under detailed academic supervision. A formal thesis is submitted (nominally 10,000 words), and a seminar is presented."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
"Massive amounts of data are being collected by public and private organisations, and research projects, while the Internet provides a very large source of information about almost every aspect of human life and society. Analysing such data can provide significant benefits to an organisation. This course provides a practical focus on the technology and research in the area of data mining. It focuses on the algorithms and techniques and less on the mathematical and statistical foundations."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
NA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
"This course provides an introduction to High Performance Computing with an orientation towards applications in science and engineering. Aspects of numerical computing and the design and construction of sophisticated scientific software will be considered. The focus will be on the C and C++ programming languages, although reflecting the reality of modern scientific computation this course will also touch on other languages such as Python, Java and FORTRAN95. The course will study high performance computer architectures, including modern parallel processors, and will describe how an algorithm interacts with these architectures. It will also look at practical methods of estimating and measuring algorithm/architecture performance."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
"This is an Individual Research Project (IRP) within the Bachelor of Advanced Computing (Research and Development) (Honours) degree. Students do multiple IRPs during their program, with each one specifically designed to provide a strong research focus customised to each student. These give students valuable research experience along with the opportunity to explore different research areas prior to their final Honour's project."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
"Industrial Experience gives the student exposure to current professional practice. It consists of 60 days of work, organised by the student. Of those 60 days, 20 must be in a software engineering context, 20 must be in a professional context, and the remaining 20 may be in any employment.Industrial Experience is usually undertaken outside study periods, and is graded satisfactory or unsatisfactory."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
"Commerce and research are being transformed by data-driven discovery and prediction.  Skills required for data analytics at massive levels - scalable data management on and off the cloud, parallel algorithms, statistical modeling, and proficiency with a complex ecosystem of tools and platforms - span a variety of disciplines and are not easy to obtain through conventional curricula. Tour the basic techniques of data science, including both SQL and NoSQL solutions for massive data management, basic statistical modeling (e.g., descriptive statistics, linear and non-linear regression), algorithms for machine learning and optimization, and fundamentals of knowledge representation and search.  Learn key concepts in security and the use of cryptographic techniques in securing data."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
"This course provides a broad but thorough introduction to the methods and practice of statistical machine learning. Topics covered will include Bayesian inference and maximum likelihood modeling; regression, classification, density estimation, clustering, principal and independent component analysis; parametric, semi-parametric, and non-parametric models; basis functions, neural networks, kernel methods, and graphical models; deterministic and stochastic optimisation; overfitting, regularisation, and validation."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
"An introductory course in formal logic, dealing with propositional and predicate logic. Techniques of formal deduction and tests for the validity of arguments will be studied. Basic semantic concepts will be discussed."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
"Leadership,  Management, Professionalism, Ethics and Teamwork"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
"This course introduces students to advanced topics on managing the quality of products to be delivered as part of the progression within a software development project, and managing the development process itself through software process improvement frameworks and standards."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
"This course studies networking fundamentals including local, metropolitan, and wide area networks (LAN, MAN, and WAN), the Internet, intranets, extranets, and the World Wide Web (WWW). Its focus is on the application, transport, and network layers. The topics covered include the following: hardware, software, network topologies, architecture, and protocols; network and web applications; website design and construction; information architecture; standards; privacy, security, firewalls, and reliability; systems integration; network monitoring and management; and professional ethics and social issues."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
"Offensive Cyber Security operations introduces and exercises a complete range of reverse engineering techniques and attack patterns. Students will also learn and exercise analysis of systems based on minimal information. This is a complete course in cyber attacks which enables students on successful completion to identify and test systems for vulnerabilities without full knowledge or direct access."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
"This course is the first of three core computer science courses on programming. It introduces students to the field of computer science as a discipline for solving problems through computation and provides the foundation for more advanced courses on programming and software development. Data structures and algorithms, the key concepts at the core of computer science, receive their first treatment in this course. The course addresses both functional and imperative programming paradigms."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
"This course is a variation on Programming for Problem Solving (COMP1100). It  covers the same topics in more depth, allowing students to deepen their understanding and experience. They will understand the foundations of program semantics, program proof, and implementation of the programming language features that they have learned in the course."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
"This course teaches introductory programming within a problem solving framework applicable to the sciences. The course emphasises technical programming, the simulation of scientific systems and the processing of scientific data. There is an emphasis on designing and writing correct code. Testing and debugging are seen as integral to the programming enterprise. Both top-down and object oriented design are taught. There will be an introduction to widely-used computer science algorithms and to machine architecture. The course will be taught using one or more programming languages which are widely applicable to scientific work."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
"Students will conduct a small project, under supervision, that in area of computing of mutual interest to the student and their supervisor. The project will involve applying and increasing the depth of the student's knowledge in some aspect of computing. The activities in the course will normally include some combination of reading, writing, project work and presentation, as appropriate to the topic. The specific learning objectives, project overview and assessment arrangements will be specified at the outset using the Department of Computer Science form 'Independent Study Contract'."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
"This course continues to build on topics taught in the previous two courses. It focuses on construction of medium scale programs, using design patterns and tools that are used in the software development process. Students will gain further experience with industry standard revision control and integrated development environment (IDE) tools."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
"This course exposes students to professional software engineering practice and leadership through the development of a software system for an industry, government or university based customer, or by engaging with the ACT innovation community and students across the university to create a software-based start-up business.  Students will lead small teams to plan (define, estimate, schedule) and manage an appropriate set of activities to ultimately deliver a software product. The implementation part of the project will include monitoring, measuring, tracking, and managing change."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
"This course provides the student with project experience to complement the studies of the software development process in courses COMP2500, COMP2130, COMP3530 and COMP3120."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
"Students will conduct an individual research project under the close supervision of one or more academic staff. Projects will, at least in part, require the application of theoretical or experimental research techniques. In particular, students will be expected to conduct and present a survey of the literature relevant to the research topic."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
NA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
"This course introduces students to the fundamentals of software development with a substantial group software project at its center. Major foci are data structures, object oriented programming, and an introduction to software engineering. Students will extend their understanding of software productivity tools, using revision control for group work, and be introduced to test-driven development as an integral part of software construction."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
"This course covers the theoretical computer science areas of formallanguages and automata, computability and complexity. Topics covered include: regular and context-free languages; finite automata and pushdown automata; Turing machines; Church's thesis; computability - halting problem, solvable and unsolvable problems; space and time complexity; classes P, NP and PSPACE; NP-Completeness."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
"This course is available so that senior students can pursue, under supervision, topics that are not covered in the regular curriculum that will significantly increase their knowledge of some aspect of computer science.The activities in the course will be some combination of lectures, reading, writing and project work, as appropriate to the topic. These activities will be specified, for each enrolled student, using a Research School of Computer Science `Independent Study Contract'."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
"This course introduces the construction of web sites and web interface/interaction design. There is a key focus on the on new media / multimedia and its delivery on the world wide web. The course introduces multimedia as a combination of text, graphics, video, animation and sound for the purposes of information access, storage and dissemination. Topics such as the nature and types of multimedia objects, components of a multimedia system, Web authoring, delivery tools, multimedia applications, spam, podcasts, RSS, web spam and societal implications of the web. Students will create multimedia applications using some or all of HTML, XHTML, JavaScript, animation, sound, video and 3D. The course provides an introduction to the latest web technologies."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
