"The overall aim of the course is to introduce students to the practical application of micro-econometric methods. Micro-econometrics is concerned mainly with the analysis of crosssectional and short panel data from individuals, households, firms, regions etc. (Macro-econometrics is concerned mainly with analysing economic time series and long panel data from one or more countries.) The course goes beyond the linear regression models used to estimate simple associations between dependent and independent variables. It covers nonlinear models used to analyse for example discrete and censored dependent variables, and it covers estimation of causal effects as opposed to associations. The necessary econometric theory will be covered/reviewed and numerous applications will be discussed. In addition, practical aspects of data analysis will be discussed using the software Stata. "
"The overall aim of the course is to introduce students to the practical application of micro-econometric methods. Micro-econometrics is concerned mainly with the analysis of crosssectional and short panel data from individuals, households, firms, regions etc. (Macro-econometrics is concerned mainly with analysing economic time series and long panel data from one or more countries.) The course goes beyond the linear regression models used to estimate simple associations between dependent and independent variables. It covers nonlinear models used to analyse for example discrete and censored dependent variables, and it covers estimation of causal effects as opposed to associations. The necessary econometric theory will be covered/reviewed and numerous applications will be discussed. In addition, practical aspects of data analysis will be discussed using the software Stata." 
"The overall aim of this course is to provide students with an advanced understanding of the principles underlying estimation methods and hypothesis tests in econometrics. The course first covers basic probability theory, then introduces asymptotic approximation theory, and finally moves to statistics and econometrics. To focus on general ideas, the course abstracts from real-world issues and turns to the laboratory/sandbox called mathematics. "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
"This course provides an introduction to econometric methods and their applications. The main workhorse of applied econometrics is the linear regression model and the course will develop its theory and look at a wide range of applications. The course emphasizes intuitive and conceptual understanding as well as hands on econometric analysis using modern computer software on data sets from economics and business. Students learn how to conduct empirical studies, as well as how to analyze and interpret results from other empirical works. We cover a broad range of topics, including: brief review of basic statistics; ordinary least squares estimation and its properties; choice of functional form; departures from standard OLS assumptions; time series analysis."                                                                                                                         
"This course provides an introduction to econometric methods and their applications. The main workhorse of applied econometrics is the linear regression model and the course will develop its theory and look at a wide range of applications. The course emphasizes intuitive and conceptual understanding as well as hands on econometric analysis using modern computer software on data sets from economics and business. Students learn how to conduct empirical studies, as well as how to analyze and interpret results from other empirical works. We cover a broad range of topics, including: brief review of basic statistics; ordinary least squares estimation and its properties; choice of functional form; departures from standard OLS assumptions; time series analysis. "                                                                                                                        
"The course teaches the mathematical foundations of models in economics, business and finance and its applications. Mathematical topics covered include set theory, functions, series, limits, univariate and multivariate calculus, unconstrained and constrained optimisation, matrix algebra. Applications include effective interest rates, present value, annuities, production functions, average and marginal cost functions, profit maximisation."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
"This Special Topic course (reading course) in Econometrics will cover a large amount of material and special advanced topics in Econometrics that are not covered in regular RSE courses. Topics will be delivered at a higher level and tailored to Lecturer/Student needs."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
