 "This course will examine key themes in contemporary German literary and cultural studies. Through the study of widely acclaimed texts and novels, students will gain a critical appreciation of significant currents in contemporary German culture and society, and their broader historical context. Students will develop specialist vocabulary and skills enabling them to discuss these texts and authors using sophisticated oral and written German. "
 "With an emphasis on academic German, this course continues with the development of listening and reading comprehension skills and with the development of oral and written communication. Students will learn and practise how to write a university essay in German and how to give a class presentation with an academic content."                                                                                                                         
 "This course continues with the development of listening and reading comprehension skills and with the development of oral and written communication. This includes a review and extension of basic German grammar and vocabulary, and training in and reflection on language learning strategies. "                                                                                                                                                          
 "This course continues with the development of listening and reading comprehension skills and with the development of oral and written communication. This includes the study of modern German grammar and vocabulary, and training in and reflection on language learning strategies."                                                                                                                                                                       
 "In this introductory course students begin to develop basic listening and reading comprehension, as well as oral and written German communication skills, including culturally appropriate language use. The course furthermore provides an introduction to basic German grammar and training in language learning strategies. Students are introduced to first aspects of life and culture of the German-speaking societies."                               
