  "Majority perceptions of Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders matter in the Australian democracy. This course explores the ways that Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people draw on a range of personal, social and cultural resources to compensate for adversities brought about by colonisation.  "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
  "This course will help you to become a better historian and a better analyst of historical writing.  It examines the principles, strategies and assumptions underlying different forms of history.  It also introduces current debates about the discipline.  The course will consider key developments in historical thought and method, from the classical period to the present day.  It will invite you to consider the social functions of historical writing, as well as to critically assess the methods and models employed by different schools and traditions of historical thought.  "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
  "The modern world has been shaped by the clash of empires. From economic systems to religion and culture, our world is a product of centuries of conflict, rivalry and strategic cooperation between groups seeking to expand or protect their power. In Europe and the Americas, Africa, Asia and the Pacific, the past 600 years have seen radical historical transformations as empires rose and fell. This course explores the dynamics driving imperial expansion and conflict since the late Crusades, and the legacies these processes left behind them. It places the complex and always contested 'rise of the West' in a global frame, from the Spanish conquest of the Americas to the Cold War and beyond. In doing so, it explores the techniques and technologies that enabled imperial growth, the ideologies that legitimated it, the resistance of many who fought against it, and associated movements of populations and international relations. It examines the role of imperial culture and politics in shaping societies and identities and analyses the impact of imperial exchanges in transforming institutions, environments and modes of life."                                                 
  "'Crime' and 'justice' are frequently considered to be opposites. But are they? This course uses historical case studies to explore criminal justice dilemmas in the Western world, from the Enlightenment to the mid-twentieth century. Over this period the problem of crime and efforts to devise effective means of delivering justice posed an ongoing challenge for legislators, philosophers, religious leaders, scientific experts, and institutional managers.What counts as crime? How should crime be controlled? Does mercy have a place in punishment? Is the state an agent of injustice? Debate over these questions led to new institutions, practices, and concepts, including: the invention of the penitentiary; the abolition of capital punishment; and the rise of eugenics.Lectures and readings will focus on key dilemmas that brought crime and justice into question. Tutorials will involve the analysis of original documents and the essay will explore an historical crime and justice dilemma in depth.   "                                                                                                                                                                                 
  "An introduction to Atlantic history and the study of the various socio-cultural, political, economic and material relationships which came to link Europe, Africa, and the Americas; their formation, mutual influence and impact, and, in some instances, transformation or dissolution. Principal themes will be how historians study premodern American peoples; why, and to what extent, many of these peoples were conquered by Europeans; European interactions with (changing) Native American and African societies; the rise of slavery and racism; the varied consequences for early modern European societies of global expansion."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
  "This course traces the history of Western exploration of the Americas, Australasia, Africa, Antarctica and beyond from the 15th to the 20th centuries. It will examine the ways in which Western travellers and explorers ventured out into the world beyond Europe, and how they sought to make sense of the environments and peoples they encountered. In this course we will study the diverse commercial, scientific, national, and personal motives explorers had for venturing out into uncharted parts of the world, including the search for imagined El Dorados as well as other fabled lands such as Terra Australis Incognita and Timbuktu. Themes covered in this course include: the interconnections between exploration and natural history including how 'specimens' collected by explorers influenced western scientific knowledge and taxonomy; the influence of technology and media on facilitating exploration and producing ever expanding audiences; and a critical evaluation of the idea of the 'lone explorer' by tracing how these travellers were self-fashioned, depicted in popular culture, and highlighting their often unacknowledged colleagues and intermediaries who assisted them."   
  "Human rights, in ideal terms, are universal. Yet the notion is a product of history. This course traces the cultural, political, religious and philosophical forces that inspired revolutionary thinkers to question old world inequalities and injustice. However, the earliest efforts to establish human rights applied only to privileged minorities and dominant nations."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
  "This course develops a critical understanding of diverse historiographical approaches in the discipline of history. It provides students with an in-depth appreciation of contemporary historiography in order to develop skills in both critical analysis and problem-based research design.  The course will be team-taught by the School of History in seminar format to promote a community of researchers and scholars. When possible, students will participate in the National Honours Workshop hosted by the Australian National University."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
  "The Cold War was a political, ideological, military and cultural conflict between the USA, the Soviet Union and the People's Republic of China.  Yet it also involved proxy wars and crises throughout Africa, Asia, Europe and Latin America, as well as a massive arms race, a great power rivalry that deeply affected domestic populations, complex diplomacy, and the eventual collapse of a great empire. This course combines historical and International Relations methods and theories to explore the onset, conduct and outcomes of the Cold War. "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
 "The twentieth century forged a new world. Through revolution, mass destruction, economic development and technological transformation, a connected globe of deep divergences emerged. This course surveys the transformations that redefined the world from the age of empires to the era of globalisation. In a series of modules it examines the key political, economic, social, demographic and cultural dynamics that shaped the contemporary world, from war and revolution to health, work and consumption. Particular attention will be dedicated to ideological conflict, advances in communication and technology, environmental degradation and unprecedented population growth. We will also trace the experience of changes that upset and in some instances reinforced older patterns of insecurity and disadvantage. The course will use a diversity of evidence, from political manifestos to commercial advertisements, to explore attempts to reshape the world. Taking in all continents, and ranging from international systems to unique local patterns of work and leisure, this course provides a critical foundation from which to understand the ongoing legacies of the twentieth century world."
 "This course will consider Australian histories. That is, it will consider different groups' (e.g. indigenous, migrant, women and men) lived experiences as well as their engagement with the Australian past; how they do so and for what reasons. Students will read in a range of historiographies, including the social, cultural, and transnational. They will also consider popular forms of history making (e.g. film, television, museum exhibition) and have the opportunity to use a diverse range of sources in their own work."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
