"Accounting Information Systems (AIS) form an integral part of modern organisations since they support managers to plan and control business operations, improve decision-making in organisations, and support financial accounting and reporting. This course examines the way AIS are structured and used in organisations and provides a close look into how these systems work and impact on enterprises. It is suitable for both students with accounting backgrounds and with IT backgrounds."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
"This course provides the requisite background to important theoretical and applied issues in information systems.  It aims to deepen the candidate's grasp of the theories, techniques and methods commonly employed in information systems research."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
"This course aims to provide students from all business disciplines with a general background of BIS. An understanding of BIS is important to the work of business professionals because BIS serves as a bridge between management and operation. For instance, accountants use information systems for business reporting; financial managers use information systems for market forecast; sales managers and marketers use information systems to track customer purchases and to promote new products; information systems designers build and deliver new information services; and executive managers use strategic information systems to determine the company's strategic position. Mastering both business and technology skills and knowledge builds job opportunities, because they can better contribute to shaping their company's strategy and operation."                                                                                                                   
"This course is designed for Honours students to undertake independent research in business information systems. Student will conduct research in their chosen topic under the supervision of an academic staff member with a relevant research interest. Students will be required to identify research problems, review and synthesize literature, develop an appropriate research design, collect and analyse data, and present their findings effectively in a written thesis."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
"This course builds on the material introduced in INFS7040 Electronic Commerce for Managers by covering the strategic architecting, development and use of Business IT systems and processes in organisations and business enterprises. Topical issues such as the organizational enterprise architecture and business process management implications raised by e-commerce/e-business/e-government, trust in the enterprise environment, supply chain and customer relationship management systems, legacy information systems integration, data and content management, business analysis, requirements engineering and systems realisation and managerial implementation (including executive judgement) are also covered in the course. An in-depth course project is required as part of the assessment."                                                                                                                                                                             
"This course aims to provide students with the knowledge and skills necessary to successfully undertake information systems analysis. Lectures and tutorials provide coverage of the concepts, skills, methodologies, techniques, tools and perspectives considered essential for systems analysts working with modern information systems and their development."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
"This course gives students a thorough grounding in the management of technology in an organisational context, placing particular emphasis on the Chief Information Officer perspective. The unit material complements applied student knowledge with a theoretical technology management foundation. Topics are presented from a textbook and, where appropriate, relevant readings from the contemporary literature are used to present competing points of view. Topics include the information system in the organisation, information system planning, enterprise systems in context, systems to support operations and management, policy development and directive management, and technology economics. Students are introduced to the practical aspects of this area through a series of organisational case studies."                                                                                                                                                            
"This course approaches information systems from the executive and operational management perspective. It assumes a familiarity with the fundamentals of business and information systems from a technological point of view, as would be covered in a foundation course in this area. The emphasis of the course will be on understanding concepts, characteristics and factors, particularly from technological and non-technological perspectives, that are likely to impact the effectiveness and success of information systems in business environments. The aim of the course is therefore to provide students with a balanced view and deeper understanding of developing information systems strategy and managing information systems from organisational and technical perspectives so that they have a theoretically sound, but nevertheless practically oriented foundation, from which to successfully tackle information systems projects, initiatives and implementations."
