"The course focuses on mainstream theories about Japanese society and major current socio-cultural issues. The course will be based on authentic materials dealing with Japanese society from linguistic, anthropological, sociological and psychological points of view."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
"This course aims to develop near-native competence in reading contemporary Japanese texts independently and without heavily reliance upon translations or a supervisor's assistance. The course will focus on extensive reading in contemporary Japanese texts on social, historical, ethnological, anthropological, and biological themes, amongst others, and discussion of issues raised. The course will be assessed through summaries of text and transposition of dialogue style into prose style (no English translation involved) and a book review.  It is also hoped that the course would enhance the four skills of language proficiency of each individual student in exploring his/her interests in discipline areas."                                                                                                                                                                                           
"Syllabus: The course is designed to provide a wide range of knowledge and skills which are necessary to develop the Japanese communication skills at the beginner's level, and to establish a basis of further study of the language."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
"Japanese 1: Written aims to develop your knowledge and competence in modern written Japanese. The course will cover basic Japanese grammar and general knowledge about the writing system and you will learn the phonetic scripts of Hiragana and Katakana and 120 Kanji characters. In the initial stage, hiragana, katakana and kanji are introduced as individual characters. However, as the written language is an important means of communication, the second stage will focus on reading skills and on using all three of the systems appropriately in a cohesive text.   "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
"Japanese 3 is an intermediate Japanese language course which aims to improve the learner's command of modern spoken Japanese. The focus is on the oral and aural skills needed to understand and participate in general everyday conversations. With the course textbook Tobira : Gateway to Advanced Japanese, we aim to teach you the listening and oral skills needed to understand and participate in general everyday conversations. Drawing on the text and supplementary materials we will work through a series of themes relating to Japan in the 21st Century (Geography, Speech Styles, Technology, Sports, Food, Religion and Pop Culture) to promote your communicative abilities. The course requires five hours of classes per week: one hour seminar, one two hour tutorial and two additional hours of tutorials. "                                                                                           
"This class consists of two components: online self-study and face-to-face in-class study. Online, students study a textbook, along with prescribed vocabulary lists, grammar points and reading passages, at their own pace. Extensive lecture videos and self-study resources are provided. Students take online quizzes during invigilated computer lab hours to test their understanding of the material. During face-to-face workshops and tutorials students work in small groups reading, discussing and writing about a broad range of real-world materials. The focus of this section of the course is to help students to transition from the certainty of a textbook to the ambiguity and confusion of real-world Japanese.  The language of instruction for this class is Japanese and it is expected that all students will make every effort to use only Japanese in class time and class-related correspondence."
"The course aims to provide a systematic treatment of modern Japanese grammar and vocabulary for intermediate students of the language. It examines various grammatical items and interrelations between Japanese words. It will therefore help students in their acquisition of Japanese language skills. Lectures will be supplemented by regular exercises, with the objective of consolidating and extending students' knowledge of Japanese grammar and vocabulary/expressions. Some theoretical aspects of the language will also be discussed."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
"This tertiary-level extension course is for senior secondary students who have had considerably more exposure to Japanese language than average students and is designed to extend the in-school Advanced Japanese program by developing students' comprehensive language skills. This course focuses on the practical and pragmatic use of the Japanese language in a variety of contexts, through which students are given opportunities to further extend their language proficiency, communication skills, socio-cultural knowledge about Japan, and cross-cultural awareness."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
"This tertiary-level extension course for senior secondary students consolidates the foundation of the students' Japanese language skills, and extends students' study in existing Japanese Continuing language courses for year 11 and 12 Secondary students. This course will enhance students' ability to interact and interpret meaning (spoken and written reception), interact and create meaning (spoken and written production) Japanese through content-based learning, enabling students to communicate in different contexts. Upon completion of the course students will be able to describe their thoughts, experience and feelings in Japanese relatively freely in both speaking and writing, and are expected to have a good understanding of Japanese culture, society and people, and to have developed good Japanese self-study skills."                                                                     
NA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
"This course focuses on the teaching of Japanese to English-speaking learners from the viewpoint of the linguistic and sociocultural content of Japanese language courses. The broad areas of sound, writing, grammar, vocabulary and discourse are surveyed from this perspective, with detailed consideration of specific topics and analysis of learner errors."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
