"The ability to write persuasively and appropriately in Academic English is fundamental to the successful completion of a degree. This course is designed to help students engage with academic sources and write accurately and persuasively for an academic audience. It introduces theoretical and practical aspects of English academic writing. Class discussions and activities will focus on skills such as how to sequence ideas and structure paragraphs into a coherent written argument, how to identify key and supporting ideas and how to identify elements of academic genres. Activities will develop academic reading strategies, writing skills (such as note making, annotation, planning, drafting, peer reviewing, revising, editing) and speaking and listening skills for discussions and presentations. Students will be encouraged to develop reading, writing, listening and speaking skills in their own areas of interest. "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
"Sociophonetics lies at the intersection between sociolinguistics and phonetics. This is a relatively new field of study, that explores both linguistic production (how pronunciation is associated with social categories, such as age, gender, ethnicity and socioeconomic status, as well as attitudes and aspirations) and perception (the kinds of judgments and assumptions we make about people from the way they speak). In this course, you will be introduced to quantitative methods and associated tools for analysis, which you will apply in a sociophonetic research project on a topic related to language variation and change."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
"In different societies people speak differently, not only because they speak different languages but because their ways of using language are different. These differences can be profound and systematic. Today's transnational flows of people, ideas, languages, and practices mean that we encounter these differences in contexts ranging from home, school, hospital, workplaces, to international business, tourism, diplomacy and humanitarian work. This drives the need to understand both 'cross-cultural communication' (communication across different groups and societies) and 'intercultural communication' (communication within groups and societies).  How people choose to interact with others stems from the languages they speak, and also from their histories, the values of the groups they identify with, their relations with their interactants, the goals of the interaction, the setting in which it takes place and the medium (digital, face-to-face, written).  We explore these from a linguistic perspective, critically examining the empirical basis for claims made about communication in a range of societies including, for example, Australia, the US, Indigenous Australia, China, France, Germany, Japan, Israel, Korea, and Hispanic speech communities. A general framework for understanding verbal as well as non-verbal communication across and between groups is outlined, drawing on insights from linguistics, psychology, anthropology, tourism, media and communication studies."
"Dictionaries are the most widely-used source of information about languages. This course introduces the craft of dictionary-making, and looks at questions about the nature of languages and their descriptions that arise when making a dictionary. The course will focus both on existing lexicographic materials (e.g. various kinds of dictionaries of major world languages) and on the task of making dictionaries of undescribed languages from scratch (particularly for languages of indigenous Australia and the Western Pacific)."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
"In this course students will become acquainted with the fundamental concepts of syntax and with a wide variety of syntactic structures found in the world's languages and will develop skills in syntactic analysis.  Examples will be used from languages from every inhabited continent, and students will learn how to go about analyzing the syntax of an unfamiliar language."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
"This course gives an introduction to human language, its structure and how it can be described and analysed, as well as what all human languages have in common and how they differ. The methodology of linguistics (the scientific study of language) is introduced, focusing on the formulation of generalisations that say what all human languages share. The aim of the unit is to give a conceptual framework for (1) thinking about and discussing language and language-related topics, and (2) aiding the acquisition of a second language. The course will be of interest to any student who wishes to learn more about language and is an essential foundation for further studies in linguistics."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
"Language is so fundamental to the rituals and events of everyday life that its role is taken for granted. Language and Social Interaction deals with how we use language to negotiate relationships, actions and events in our daily lives. Students will explore various approaches to the analysis of language in interaction, such as conversation analysis, discourse analysis and critical discourse analysis, and they will encounter research into language in interaction in diverse contexts for a range of purposes. Students will develop skills for analysing naturally-occurring language samples, and they will have the opportunity to develop their own research project using a method encountered in the course. This research training experience will include the collection and analysis of data."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
"This course presents a linguistic survey of Spanish and Portuguese-speaking countries in Latin America, with a focus on the regional, social, and ethnic diversity in language use. Through the study of the history of Spanish and Portuguese in the region, contact with Amerindian and African languages and language planning and policy, students will gain an understanding of how the Spanish and Portuguese varieties spoken in Latin America were formed and of the social reality in which they exist today. Readings will be drawn from a selection of classic and contemporary research in the area, and will be critically assessed through tutorial discussion and in a final essay."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
"This course focuses on the role linguistics has within the rapidly growing field of forensic science. Forensic linguistics is a diverse field that not only has applications in legal and criminal investigation, but also makes important contributions to the military, government and business, and can contribute to literary, historical and cultural studies. Whether it is a dispute over who wrote Shakespeare's plays, or which suspect had threatened a murder victim, the challenge is to associate a text or utterance with a specific individual."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
"Around 300 languages have been used in traditional and modern Australian Indigenous societies.  This unit introduces their sounds, words, grammars and use.  You'll learn about speech etiquette, specialised codes and respect language, how languages reflect social, cultural and physical environments, along with learning something of a traditional language and a creole. Language-land relations, land rights, and placenames are a focus. We discuss the effect of English on traditional languages: borrowing, language reduction, loss, shift, and the creation of new varieties (e.g. Aboriginal English). We consider policies on language rights, reversing language shift through language revitalisation and bilingual education."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
"Across the world, people who have already developed the ability to use a language from birth start to learn other languages. For some, additional language learning is required of them, for example, at school. For others, the new language encounter has motivations such as economic opportunity, survival, ancestral connection, love and belonging. How do humans manage this complex task? What affects their success with a new language? This course offers insight into these questions about the learning of additional languages. It introduces the main theoretical approaches and empirical methods in second language acquisition (SLA) research. Topics will include features of language learners and their learning processes (e.g. age, cross-linguistic influences), individual influences on language development (e.g. motivation, aptitude) and social dimensions (e.g. identity). Students will be encouraged to critically reflect on their own experiences as language learners and/or their experiences in relevant professional capacities."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
"Languages are complex systems. For each subsystem, researchers have developed different theories of how the subsystem is internally structured and how it interacts with other parts of the system.  Students will employ and evaluate frameworks for analysing the complexities of a subsytem of the language system, and will set this in the context of particular theories of language."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
"Elicitation, interpretation and visualisation of phonetic, syntactic, semantic and textual data lie at the heart of linguistics research. These require the use of software tools to create and manage textual, audio and associated video data for a wide range of purposes including language documentation and archiving, language processing, dictionary design, language learning, and the analysis of classroom talk. Students will apply techniques and tools across a range of  areas of linguistic study."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
"The study of language requires both the collection of data and the analysis of that data.  Each of these can be approached in a range of ways, depending on the goals of the study.  In this course, students will consider how their research questions are best answered,  what methods they will use to collect data, and how that data is best analysed.  They will identify and critically evaluate methods of data gathering and interpretation.  They will be guided through writing a part of their own thesis project. This will involve four elements: 1) setting their research question within the relevant research context, 2) identifying the data needed to answer their research question,  3) identifying the methods needed to analyse their data, and 4) drafting a section of the thesis itself."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
"Languages are complex systems with many subsystems, each of which is linked with different theories of how the subsystem is internally structured and how it interacts with other parts of the system.  Students will be exposed to a range of research on theoretical approaches to linguistics subsystems and their interaction, while carrying out in-depth exploration of a particular subsystem.  They will employ and evaluate particular theories of language and its subsystems."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
"This course introduces students to the basic problems in the study of meaning, in all areas of language (vocabulary, grammar, discourse). Students learn how to use the Natural Semantic Metalanguage (NSM) approach; formulate and test hypotheses about what a word, an expression or a construction means; how to state this meaning in a clear, precise and illuminating way; and how to compare meanings across languages and cultures. They will also learn some of the basic ideas and techniques of Formal Semantics, for analyzing meaning-based properties and relations of words and utterance, such as entailment and contradiction, and how NSM and Formal Semantics relate to other approaches to the study of meaning, such as componential analysis."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
"Intensive study of one or more topics in linguistics, through a combination of lectures, prescribed readings, and written analysis. The topics may be studied in conjunction with the Australian Linguistic Institute organised by the Australian Linguistic Society."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
