"Just as there is a formula for solving a quadratic equation, there are similar formulae for solving the general cubic and quartic. Galois theory provides a solution to the corresponding problem for quintics --- there is no such formula in this case! Galois theory also enables us to prove (despite regular claims to the contrary) that there is no ruler and compass construction for trisecting an angle. More broadly, the purpose of Galois theory is to study polynomials at a deep level by using symmetries between the roots. This is a pervasive theme in modern mathematics, and Galois theory is traditionally where one first encounters it."                                                                                                                                       
"This course introduces the key concepts of modern real analysis. The philosophy of this course is that modern analysis play a fundamental role in mathematics itself and in applications to areas such as physics, computer science, economics and engineering. This course will have shared lectures with MATH2320 but will have different tutorials and assessment which will emphasise the application of techniques.Topics to be covered include:Review of the real number system, the foundations of calculus, elementary set theory; metric spaces, sequences, series and power series, uniform convergence, continuity, the contraction mapping principle; foundations of multidimensional calculus, applications to the calculus of variations, integral equations and differential equations."
"Analysis 1 is a foundational course in Mathematics, leading on to other areas of analysis, such as topology and measure theory, complex analysis, functional analysis, and harmonic analysis. It also provides important tools for application areas such as theoretical computer science, physics and engineering.Topics to be covered include: Review of the real number system, the foundations of calculus, elementary set theory; metric spaces, sequences, series and power series, uniform convergence, continuity, the contraction mapping principle; foundations of multidimensional calculus, applications to the calculus of variations, integral equations and differential equations."                                                                                                    
"This course is intended both for mathematics students continuing to honours work and for other students using mathematics at a high level in theoretical physics, engineering and information technology, and mathematical economics."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
"This is a special topics course which introduces students to the key concepts and techniques of Differential Geometry. Possible topics include:"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
"This is a special topics course which introduces students to the key concepts and techniques of: First order logicAxiomatisation of set theoryModel theoryComputabilityGodel's Incompleteness Theorem."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
"This course begins with a brief review of some of the areas of probability and statistics needed for applications to bioinformatics problems.  Typical problems addressed by bioinformaticians are identifying functionally different parts of a genome, searching DNA or protein databases to find sequences which are functionally similar to a given query sequence, or inferring the relatedness of different species by measuring the similarity of their genomes. The course will cover the mathematical theory behind algorithms commonly used by biologists and also give examples of current research."                                                                                                                                                                                       
"This course begins an in-depth study of the fundamental concepts of calculus and linear algebra, with a particular emphasis on the underlying foundations of mathematics. The use and understanding of proof and abstract ideas, will allow students to develop analytical skills which will form a base for further study in fundamental mathematics as well as providing a foundation for a wide range of quantitative areas such as actuarial studies, computer science, engineering, economics, statistics and physics."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
"This course introduces students to key concepts and techniques in mathematical physics. Topics will be taken from contemporary research areas in mathematical physics. Possible topics include Lie algebras, integrable models and conformal field theory."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
"This is a course covering the elementary algebraic and calculus methods necessary for mathematical modelling. Emphasis will be placed on developing facility, technique and use in applications. Modelling of processes and phenomena which occur in economics, engineering and the physical, environmental and life sciences will be used as a vehicle throughout. This course also provides a pathway to higher level mathematics courses."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
"This course shows the modelling process in the context of differential equations and case studies from a number of areas such as population dynamics, economics, electric circuits, mechanical systems, fluid flow, physics and astrophysics. Analytic methods from the elementary theory of differential equations and calculus will be provided to allow for the analysis of the various models being investigated. The numerical package MATLAB will be used to study model behaviour and to obtain deeper understanding of the consequences of analytical studies."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
"Introduction to discrete mathematics and its use in mathematical modelling. Emphasis will be placed on developing facility, technique and use in applications. Modelling of processes and phenomena which occur in economics and the physical, environmental and life sciences will be used as a vehicle throughout. Topics to be covered include: combinatorics and counting, induction and recurrence relations, graph theory and networks, matrix arithmetic and Markov chains, logic and finite set theory."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
"This course introduces basic mathematical techniques of fractal geometry and dynamical systems, aimed towards understanding and modeling natural shapes and forms from leaves to coastlines. Basic topological and geometrical language to describe and model rough, (\"fractal\") objects is developed. Relationships between fractal geometry and discrete dynamical systems and chaotic dynamics are emphasized, including symbolic dynamics, stability of attractors, bifurcations and routes to chaos. "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
"This course focuses on the language of mathematical arguments.  Rather than attacking advanced topics, we will use simple mathematics to develop an understanding of how results are established. We begin with clearly stated and plausible assumptions or axioms and then develop a more and more complex theory from them. The course, and the lecturer, will have succeeded if you finish the course able to construct valid arguments of your own and to criticise those that are presented to you."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
"The emphasis will be on understanding the material so that it can both be applied across a range of fields including the physical and biological sciences, engineering and information technologies, economics and commerce, and can also serve as a base for future mathematics courses. Many applications and connections with other fields will be discussed although not developed in detail. However, the material will not be developed in a rigorous theorem-proof style. Students interested in continuing with mathematics subjects beyond second year should initially enrol in MATH1115. This includes students interested in more mathematical/theoretical aspects of engineering, science and economics."                                                                                 
"This course continues on from MATH1013. It emphasizes an understanding of the fundamental results from calculus and linear algebra which can both be applied across a range of fields including the physical and biological sciences, engineering and information technologies, economics and commerce, and can also serve as a base for future mathematics courses. Many applications and connections with other fields will be discussed although not developed in detail."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
"A course for science or non-science students jointly offered by the Departments of Mathematics and Philosophy that aims to provide a conceptual understanding of some of the many faces of the large-scale universe."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
"The course introduces probability theory, including probability spaces, random variables, conditional probability and independence, limit theorems, and Markov chains, with an introduction to Brownian motion. The course will provide students with a solid theoretical foundation for probability theory, as well as describing describing some practical applications of probability in information theory and option pricing. "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
"This course presents the basic elements of scientific computing, in particular the methods for solving or approximating the solution of calculus and linear algebra problems associated with real world problems. Using a non-trivial model problem such as the heat equation, and sophisticated scientific computing and visualisation environments, students are introduced to the basic computational concepts of stability, accuracy and efficiency, as new numerical methods and techniques are introduced to solve progressively more challenging problems."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
"Selected topics, normally fourth year honours and postgraduate courses, may be made available to undergraduate students. Interested students should consult the year coordinator or attend the honours course meeting on first Monday of each semester."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
"Selected topics, normally fourth year honours and postgraduate courses, may be made available to undergraduate students. Interested students should consult the year coordinator or attend the honours course meeting on first Monday of each semester."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
"Thesis and presentations comprises honours research and two seminar talks. The thesis contributes 47% to the overall mark and the presentations contribute the remaining 3% of the grade.  Honours students are also required to take four 6-unit courses during the year, and students should check the Department of Mathematics third/fourth year course page for a list of available Honours and special topics courses.  MATH4005 is a variable unit course, and students should enrol in a total of 24 units per semester.  "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
"This course will introduce students to current research trends in an area of computational mathematics. Possible topics: data mining algorithms, multiscale and multilevel techniques, the numerical solution of PDEs, optimisation, approximation in particular of high-dimensional functions, algorithms for the solution of linear systems of equations including iterative methods."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
