 
                        A single one year undergraduate degree offered by the ANU College of Business and Economics
 Honours in Actuarial Studies is a program offered within the Research School of Finance, Actuarial Studies and Applied Statistics that offers students who have excelled in their undergraduate actuarial degree a challenging but rewarding year of study. We seek outstanding students who are keen to undertake independent research with the guidance from academic staff. Sufficiently high grades in the coursework component of the honours year will enable students to receive exemptions from Part II and Part III requirements of the Actuaries Institute.  Graduates from ANU have been rated as Australia's most employable graduates and among the most sought after by employers worldwide. The latest Global Employability University Ranking, published by the Times Higher Education, rated ANU as Australia's top university for getting a job for the fourth year in a row. Upon successful completion, students will have the knowledge and skills to:   An AQF Level 7 Bachelor of Actuarial Studies degree or equivalent, completed within the last two years:   1. with a weighted average mark equivalent to an ANU 75  per cent calculated from the following 36 units (i.e. 0.75 EFTSL) equivalent to the ANU courses: STAT2005 Introduction to Stochastic ProcessesSTAT3032 Survival ModelsSTAT3037 Life ContingenciesSTAT3038 Actuarial TechniquesSTAT3035 Risk TheorySTAT3036 Credibility Theory. 2. and with the written approval of the Honours Convener. The number of places available in the program may be limited by the Dean due to supervisory capacity.   The National Register of higher education providers is an authoritative source of information that will help you confirm your institution of choice is registered to deliver higher education in Australia. The Quality Indicators for Learning and Teaching (QILT) website is HERE. Based on surveys done by thousands of students across Australia you can find out about universities that interest you, doing side-by-side comparisons. Adjustment Factors do not apply to 1 year honours programs. They do not apply to this program. Commonwealth Supported Place (CSP) 
 For more information see: http://www.anu.edu.au/students/program-administration/costs-fees
 ANU offers a wide range of scholarships to students to assist with the cost of their studies. Eligibility to apply for ANU scholarships varies depending on the specifics of the scholarship and can be categorised by the type of student you are.  Specific scholarship application process information is included in the relevant scholarship listing. For further information see the Scholarships website. This Honours plan requires the completion of 48 units, which must consist of: 42 units from completion of the following compulsory courses: ACST4031 Actuarial Control Cycle A1 ACST4032 Actuarial Control Cycle A2 ACST4033 Actuarial Control Cycle B ACST4060 Enterprise Risk Management 1 ACST4061 Enterprise Risk Management 2 ACST4600 Actuarial Research Essay 6 units from completion of courses from the following list: ACST4045 Advanced Insurance FINM4106 Advanced Investments ACST4049 Advanced Global Retirement Income Systems   Once you have met the program requirements of your degree, you may have enough electives to complete an additional elective major, minor or specialisation. Responsible Officer: Registrar, Student Administration / Page Contact: Website Administrator / Frequently Asked Questions 
                +61 2 6125 5111
                The Australian National University, Canberra
                CRICOS Provider : 00120C
                ABN : 52 234 063 906
            