 [1] "Rapid advances in plant and animal biochemistry over recent years have fundamentally changed fields of science ranging from medicine to agriculture and food security. This course will present these recent advances exploring both the specifics and commonalities that exist in biochemistry when comparing mammalian and plant systems. The medical biochemistry stream will cover topics such as cancer metabolism, personalised immunology, molecular mechanisms related to drug development, ion channel function and aspects of translational medicine.  In the plant stream, topics to be covered include plant disease, CO2 fixation, photosynthesis and climate change. Lectures will be presented from experts from both the John Curtin School of Medical Research and the Research School of Biology. This course offers an excellent opportunity for students to understand how biochemistry impacts everyday life, and expand their knowledge of biochemistry across a platform of diverse and important disciplines."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
 [2] "The integration of molecular biology, biochemistry, genetics, next-generation sequencing and cell biology has had an enormous impact on plant science in recent years. This course will present current understanding in several key areas and demonstrate how conceptual and technical advances provide new insights in plant biology and new approaches for crop improvement and agriculture. Two introductory lectures will be given on plant structure and function prior to the major topics, which will include plant development, nitrogen fixation, epigenetics and regulation of gene expression, next-generation tools for crop improvement, photosynthesis, protein structure and plant disease and defence. Each topic will be presented by a researcher from the Research School of Biology or CSIRO Agriculture and Food."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
 [3] "This course will introduce important ideas and issues in biology and examine how biology intersects with other disciplines, both scientific and non-scientific, such as philosophy and history.  Major concepts such as evolution and the importance of biodiversity, and the impact of new biological approaches, such as genetic modification, will be discussed and debated.  The importance of understanding how biology is carried out and how it is applied and communicated to other scientists and society, will be examined."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
 [4] "This course covers the metabolism of the major nutrients, carbohydrates, fats and amino acids. The lectures discuss the metabolism of these nutrients for the generation of energy and the generation of building blocks. Finally an integrated view of metabolism is discussed in particular with respect to the feeding-starving cycle."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
 [5] "This course aims to introduce some of the major concepts in the study of life, focussing on evolutionary and ecological questions. It assumes no previous qualifications in biology and, while this course is an important prerequisite for those majoring in biology, it is also designed for students not intending further study in biology. The program consists of four modules, as follows."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
 [6] "The principal component of the Honours course involves a research project conducted under supervision of a research scientist. In addition, students are expected write a Grant Proposal on the research topic, a progress report, present seminars on their research work and attend various workshops and Divisional seminars. . The major item of assessment is the thesis. The Honours course runs from early February to early November or from mid July to mid May. In addition to meeting the entry requirements defined by the College, students must have the agreement of a member of the academic staff to supervise their project, and the agreement of the convener. Academic staff from the Research School of Biology, John Curtin School of Medical Research, CSIRO and Canberra Hospital may be supervisors or co-supervisors. Students should discuss their intention to undertake an Honours project with appropriate staff and the Honours Convener at least several months before the proposed starting date. Note that several organisations award honours scholarships in September-December for the following year."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
 [7] "This course is specially tailored for students attracted to, or wondering about research. Students are immersed in a real research environment and in the practice of research. They are integrated in a research team and get direct experience in core components of research activities, from posing a question, defining hypotheses to address it, and the appropriate approaches to examine these hypotheses; data analysis and rigorous presentation, interpretation of results, and most importantly their critical assessment and discussion in the context of the current body of knowledge. Students are experiencing first-hand the joys and tribulations of probing the unknown, the drive, curiosity, discipline, and perseverance this requires.  Interested students are encouraged to contact the course convener who will assist you in finding a potential supervisor for the project."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
 [8] "This course is specially tailored for students attracted to, or wondering about research. Students are immersed in a real research environment and in the practice of research. They are integrated in a research team and get direct experience in core components of research activities, from posing a question, defining hypotheses to address it, and the appropriate approaches to examine these hypotheses; data analysis and rigorous presentation, interpretation of results, and most importantly their critical assessment and discussion in the context of the current body of knowledge. Students are experiencing first-hand the joys and tribulations of probing the unknown, the drive, curiosity, discipline, and perseverance this requires."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
 [9] "This course integrates evolutionary, ecological and molecular perspectives to investigate how animals and plants develop and interact with their environment. The course will cover following topics: developmental regulatory genes (including signalling pathways and transcription factors), morphogenesis, maintenance of homeostasis, regeneration, interaction with biotic and abiotic environmental factors, plasticity, stem cells and transdifferentiation, genetic and genomic basis of evolution of multicellularity and body forms. The practical section will expose students to modern techniques used in developmental biology research using plant and animal model systems. The course should appeal to students interested in molecular biology or biomedicine as well as those interested in organismal biology."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
[10] "Ecology concerns the fundamental patterns and flows in natural biological systems. We consider how organisms interact with their physical environment and with each other to shape their individual attributes, patterns of population dynamics, distribution, diversity and abundance; and across scales of time and space, the patterns and processes of community assembly and ecosystem function. Why are some organisms found here, and not there? Why do plants and animals look and work like they do? What makes their populations large or small, or change in size? Why do some organisms co-exist together, and others not? Why is there so much diversity? In understanding these questions, we gain critical insight into how populations and communities have evolved, how energy and biomass flow through ecosystems, and how populations and communities respond to changes in their environment. These changes may result from natural disturbances such as changes in climate, through altered disease prevalence or competition, or from human modification of habitat, perhaps through overharvesting or species removal. "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
[11] "The aim of evolutionary and behavioural ecology is to understand how an animal is adapted to its environment, such as how an animal's behaviour contributes to its survival or reproduction. In this course we consider the outcomes of natural selection on animal behaviour and function, and discuss how we test adaptive hypotheses. We will do this by focussing on key issues in behavioural ecology. Our lectures are organised into four modules: trade-offs between costs and benefits for survival and reproduction, the principles of animal communication, the evolution of cooperation, and the biology of sex. We consider such questions as: How do individuals balance the need to get food yet avoid predators? How are communication signals designed and what do they mean? What stops animals lying? Why is cooperation potentially beneficial yet its evolution is difficult to understand? When is it advantageous to produce sons versus daughters? Why are individuals choosy when selecting a mate? Why do males care for young in some species but not others?  These areas cover research topics of interest to the strong behavioural ecology group at ANU, and we will include our current research as well as that carried out worldwide. The overall aim of the course is to develop a logical approach that can be applied to understanding and testing any question in evolutionary biology."
[12] "This is an Honours Pathway Course that is normally taken at the same time as BIOL3131, and deals with carrying out research on the behavioural ecology of free-living animals. Students will work in tutorial groups to develop hypotheses about behaviour that will be tested during a week-long field trip. Results are then presented in a poster at the course's conference; and in a report in the form of a scientific paper. The course emphasises the design and effective reporting of scientific research, and will expose students to all of the stages of carrying out and reporting original research."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
[13] "This course covers the principles of molecular genetics, introducing the molecular mechanisms involved in the storage and expression of genetic information in both prokaryotes and eukaryotes. Topics to be covered include: genome structure and evolution, DNA structure and packaging; DNA replication and repair; transcription; regulation of gene expression; RNA processing; protein synthesis and the genetic code. These processes will be illustrated with case studies, focussing especially on the human genome and genetic disease."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
[14] "This course introduces the principles of population, evolutionary and quantitative genetics. We do this by asking: what can we learn from DNA? In answering this question we focus on the practical applications of the theory illustrated by human forensic DNA analysis, conservation genetics and evolutionary genetics. In the practical component of the course, students will gain hands on experience in human forensic DNA profiling in the laboratory, as well as statistical analysis skills across a range of genetic topics. Other topics covered include epigenetics and next generation sequencing."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
[15] "This course provides an introduction to new discoveries in areas of importance to our understanding of human genetics and disease.  Fuelled by sequencing of the human genome and new methods of investigating biological function, research into the genetic and molecular causes of human disease is advancing at a rapid pace. We will examine not only the genetic abnormalities underlying human disease and disorders but also the breakdown in physiological processes and molecular biology caused by the genetic lesion. We will look at how this knowledge can lead to new disease treatments and to personalised medicine.  We will explore some of the societal issues raised by new technologies and treatments. We will cover topics including:"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
[16] "The aim of this course is to teach genomics, proteomics, metabolomics and phonemics using model organisms representing plants and animals. The course will cover recent developments in genetics, epigenetics, small RNAs, proteomics, gene expression, mutagenesis and mapping genes. An objective of the course will be to develop skills in experimental design within the context of learning about biology including: signal transduction, regulation of transcription and translation, cancer, aging, drought stress and metabolic pathways."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
[17] "The aim of this course is to provide students with a comprehensive overview of the morphology and functional anatomy of the human body.  The course incorporates normal structure and function of the human body and provides an insight to the implications of disruption of normal structure and function.  During the course, lectures will address topics covering all of the systems of the human body.  In practical sessions students will have the opportunity to examine prosected specimens and models of the human body.  This applied course provides students with skills to prepare for a medical or health-related careers. "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
[18] "The course will comprise an introduction to aspects of human biology with an emphasis on the interaction of organ systems such as nervous, circulatory, digestive and endocrine with some of the major concerns of our lives including reproduction, diet, exercise and disease. The program assumes no previous qualifications in biology. Topics discussed may include: sex and reproduction, infection and immunity, exercise and use of energy, brain function and the biology of weight regulation."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
[19] "This course covers the physiology of humans, with emphasis on the major organs and the processes they govern, including heart function and circulation, muscle function and movement and the kidney and osmoregulation. Other topics will include energetics and temperature regulation, respiration and digestion. "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
[20] " "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
[21] "This course equips biology students with skills in basic mathematics, statistics and computing in preparation for areas of biology which require quantitative data analysis.  Such skills are important for experimental design and for analysing and interpreting quantitative datasets arising from modern bioinformatics and biological modelling.  Topics covered include introductory calculus, linear algebra, probabilty and statistics, and elementary computer programming.  Examples will be given of quantitative problems arising in biological contexts.  Laboratory and/or field practicals may be used for data gathering.  This course also provides a pathway to 1000 level mathematics courses.  "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
[22] "Of the 20 major animal phyla, 19 consist of invertebrates, including many familiar animals such as insects and snails, and more unusual ones including vampire squids and sea cucumbers. This course examines the “the small things that matter” in the context of their evolution and systematics. It looks at the origin of life in the sea and the enormous diversification following terrestrialisation. The focus is on major radiations and key evolutionary innovations including the transition from radial to bilateral symmetry and the development of a mesoderm and complex organs, that have occurred in the transition from simple to complex organisms. A 3 day field trip will give students a solid grounding in the marine and terrestrial invertebrate fauna of south-eastern Australia and the microhabitats they occupy. The practical component of the course will teach students techniques of specimen preservation and the use of biological keys in species identification."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
[23] "Food crises, GMOs, loss of biodiversity, climate change and increased incidence of abiotic stress- these are hot topics, and all of them are intrinsically linked to plants. Modern plant science holds unprecedented opportunities to link processes at the genetic, molecular and physiological level to patterns at the crop or plantation level to address these important issues and ensure future food security. This multidisciplinary course exposes you to an exciting breadth of contemporary plant sciences so you can develop a synthetic understanding of this rapidly changing field. Links between genetics, molecular biology, anatomy and physiology will be made. You will develop skills in several techniques important in contemporary plant science. You will apply your newly honed plant science skills to a detective problem - an intensive research project diagnosing consequences of specific genetic mutations to plant growth and physiology. This research project gives students a taste of a real research environment."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
