  "This course covers a selection of advanced readings in Literary Chinese. Each semester, students study a different type of Literary Chinese text, including historiography, excavated texts, anecdotal literature, legal documents, poetry, and Buddhist Chinese. Students read prescribed texts in class. They receive tuition in the vocabulary, grammar, and syntax specific to each type of text and register of Literary Chinese. Students also discuss the contextual information necessary for appreciation of the texts under study; and practise using a range of Sinological research tools to discover and interpret such information. "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
  "This is an advanced Standard Modern Chinese language course, designed for students who have successfully completed Modern Chinese 6, or have achieved the equivalence approved to enroll by placement test.The course places special emphasis on reading comprehension of texts on issues concerning contemporary China. It will be taught mainly in Chinese. It relies heavily on students' self-study and pre-class preparation. Students will be required to give oral presentations in Chinese, engage in real-issue debates and conduct real time interviews as part of the course assessment. They will also write a research-based essay in Chinese by utilizing primary sources on an approved self-chosen topic. The lectures will focus on facilitating students' learning and oral development. "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
  "This course offers an introduction to Cantonese with an emphasis mainly on communicative ability and partly on comparison with Standard Modern Chinese. It is for students who have no or very limited prior knowledge of Cantonese language and may not be able to read Cantonese phonetics. At this level, students will study Cantonese pronunciation and how to initiate or respond to basic conversations in Cantonese in daily activities such as greetings, introductions, eating in and eating out. "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
  "This tertiary level Continuing Chinese H Course provide a pathway from secondary to tertiary studies in Chinese language by enhancing and complementing the existing ACT Chinese Continuing language course for Year 11 and 12 secondary students. This course will be delivered at first-year university level with a strong though not exclusive emphasis on reading and writing, which secondary college teachers of Chinese have identified as a need. Given the distinctiveness of the Chinese language and its distance from English, learning Chinese, in particular learning to read and write characters, needs new literacy skills to be developed. The course will emphasize both essential literacy skills and a broader understanding of the role of written language in a contemporary context."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
  "This course guides  students in intensive and extensive Independent level  readings and in analysis and discussion of Chinese texts in a field of specialisation. It is suitable for heritage learners or students who have completed the 'Year in China' course and have an advanced level of proficiency in spoken and written Chinese. The content of the course will cover different aspects of modern Chinese culture and society and will prepare students for independent research in different fields. At the same time, it will improve their skills of reading comprehension, speaking, writing, analysis, and translation.    "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
  "This course is designed for Independent level Standard Modern Chinese language students as a course in Chinese-English interpretation.  It will introduce the three different forms of interpretation including simultaneous interpretation, consecutive interpretation and sight interpretation. The course is intended to equip students with interpretation skills and serve as a foundation course for further Chinese-English interpretation courses.    "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
  "Literary Chinese is a written language that matured long before the Qin dynasty (221-206 B.C.), when China first became an empire. It continued to be used by China's governing and elite cultures for nearly three millennia. A command of Literary Chinese is therefore indispensable for the study of any aspect of Chinese literature, thought, history, politics, or society before the twentieth century.The idioms, syntax, style, and allusions of Literary Chinese continue to pervade the modern language. Its enduring influence results from the fact that the great legacies of Chinese culture, right down to the present day, have been largely preserved in this medium. Contemporary Chinese political and social discourse, and education, places increasing emphasis on knowledge of pre-modern Chinese culture and on familiarity with texts written in Literary Chinese. So without a grounding in Literary Chinese, it is impossible to gain a full understanding of the language or content of newspaper articles, literary works, and scholarly prose written in contemporary Taiwan, Hong Kong, and the People's Republic of China. It has also shaped the linguistic and cultural traditions of Korea, Japan, and Vietnam.This course focuses on the analysis and translation of a selection of texts for beginners from the pre-Qin (before 221 BC) and Han (206 BC to 220 AD) periods. Students develop an understanding of the main grammatical forms, function words, and sentence patterns of this formative period of Literary Chinese. Students will also study techniques of translation, as well as the cultural backgrounds essential to understanding the texts at hand."
  "This course is the initial oral component of a one-year beginners program in  Standard Modern Chinese (Putonghua or Mandarin).    "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
  "This course is the initial written component of a one-year beginners program in  Standard Modern Chinese (Putonghua or Mandarin).    "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
 "This is an intermediate level Chinese language course, following on from Standard Modern Chinese 2. This course is designed to cover the main grammatical points of Standard Modern Chinese language as well as enlarging students' vocabulary which will raise students' linguistic competence in reading, writing, listening and speaking modern Chinese. It aims at laying a solid foundation for more advanced Chinese language study in the third year and beyond.In addition to the coverage of the textbook, the course will also utilize other textual and audio / visual materials so that students can also learn about aspects of Chinese culture, history, and society."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
 "This course, with  Modern Chinese 6, is designed to enable students to reach advanced levels of competence in reading, speaking and writing Standard Modern Chinese. A wider range of texts will be read and discussed in Chinese. There will be a study of selected aspects of Chinese grammar.    "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
