 [1] "Why are some countries richer than others? Why have some countries experienced growth miracles while others have experienced stagnation of even growth disasters? Within developing countries, what does it mean to be poor? How to combat poverty? What are the challenges that the poor in developing countries face and what can be done to improve their living standards? This course intends to teach students what we know and what we do not know about these important questions and will focus on teaching students tools in understanding them. The topics covered will include explanations on why countries develop differently, the effect of geography, institutions, foreign aid, corruption and differential savings rates on the large disparities across countries. Within countries we will examine the role of education, health migration and credit markets in poverty alleviation. The course will cover both theory and empirical evidence but focusing mainly on how to conduct empirical analysis in understanding these important economic development issues. "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
 [2] "Why are some countries richer than others? Why have some countries experienced growth miracles while others have experienced stagnation or even growth disasters? Within developing countries, what does it mean to be poor? How to combat poverty? What are the challenges that the poor in developing countries face and what can be done to improve their living standards? This course intends to teach students what we know and what we do not know about these important questions and will focus on teaching students tools in understanding them. The topics covered will include explanations on why countries develop differentially, the effect of geography, institutions, foreign aid, corruption and differential, saving rates on the large disparities across countries. Within countries, we will examine the role of education, health migration and credit markets in the alleviation of poverty. The course will cover both theory and empirical evidence but focusing mainly on how to conduct empirical analysis in understanding these important economic development issues. "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
 [3] "Why are some countries richer than others? Why have some countries experienced growth miracles while others have experienced stagnation or even growth disasters? Within developing countries, what does it mean to be poor? How to combat poverty? What are the challenges that the poor in developing countries face and what can be done to improve their living standards? This course intends to teach students what we know and what we do not know about these important questions and will focus on teaching students tools in understanding them. The topics covered will include explanations on why countries develop differentially, the effect of geography, institutions, foreign aid, corruption and differential, saving rates on the large disparities across countries. Within countries, we will examine the role of education, health migration and credit markets in the alleviation of poverty. The course will cover both theory and empirical evidence but focusing mainly on how to conduct empirical analysis in understanding these important economic development issues."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
 [4] "Supervised Research"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
 [5] "Why do countries trade with each other? How, why and by whom is international trade regulated? What are the welfare consequences of international trade? How does international trade affect individual firms, consumers, workers and industries? Why do some firms decide to export but not others? What is the impact of government policies on trade and welfare, and what are the best policies? What are the welfare effects of preferential trading arrangements between countries?  What does the WTO do?  What determines currency exchange rates and is a low or high dollar a good thing? Is monetary and fiscal policy more or less effective in an open economy than in a closed one? These are some of the questions we will consider in this class."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
 [6] "The course examines the micro- and macro-economics of international trade. First we examine the gains from trade, the determinants of patterns of international trade and the effects of trade on income distribution, all in low-dimensional models. We will also have some discussion of extensions to higher dimensions.  We then turn to policy and analyse a number of arguments, both traditional and more recent, for active trade and industrial policies. We will analyse preferential trading areas and the political economy of trade policy before turning to international macroeconomics and finance."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
 [7] "Why do countries trade with each other? How, why and by whom is international trade regulated? What are the welfare consequences of international trade? How does international trade affect individual firms, consumers, workers and industries? Why do some firms decide to export but not others? What is the impact of government policies on trade and welfare, and what are the best policies? What are the welfare effects of preferential trading arrangements between countries?  What does the WTO do?  What determines currency exchange rates and is a low or high dollar a good thing? Is monetary and fiscal policy more or less effective in an open economy than in a closed one? These are some of the questions we will consider in this class."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
 [8] "This course provides a theoretical and empirical discussion of labour markets. Main topics to be discussed are: labour supply, including determinants of labour market participation and hours of works; investments in human capital and returns to education; labour demand; labour market equilibrium and wage determination; discrimination in the labour markets; internal labour markets; trade unions, and macroeconomic issues related to wages and unemployment. Policy application questions will be covered whenever appropriate. "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
 [9] "The honours section provides a theoretical and empirical discussion of labour markets. Main topics to be discussed are: labour supply, including determinants of labour market participation and hours of works; investments in human capital and returns to education; labour demand; labour market equilibrium and wage determination; discrimination in the labour markets; internal labour markets; trade unions, and macroeconomic issues related to wages and unemployment. Policy application questions will be covered whenever appropriate."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
[10] "This course provides a theoretical and empirical discussion of labour markets. Main topics to be discussed are: labour supply, including determinants of labour market participation and hours of works; investments in human capital and returns to education; labour demand; labour market equilibrium and wage determination; discrimination in the labour makets; internal labour markets; trade unions, and macroeconomic issues related to wages and unemployment. Policy application questions will be covered whenever appropriate."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
[11] "This course introduces contemporary theory for examining central questions in macroeconomics: growth, unemployment, inflation, and business cycles."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
[12] "Macroeconomics is concerned with the operation of the economy as a whole, with attention paid to such things as unemployment, inflation, and interest rates, determination of the level of national income, savings and investment, and the exchange rate and the current account of the balance of payments. The course develops a consistent model of the economy to explore the interactions of key macroeconomic markets and variables and to examine the impacts of different kinds of shocks to the economy and the role of government budgetary and monetary policy in influencing the level of economic activity."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
[13] "This course introduces the student to methods and issues in contemporary macroeconomics. A good understanding of the various macroeconomic issues and models is vital for any student of economics, business and finance. A central theme is the inter-relationship between empirical macroeconomic outcomes and theoretical constructs for explaining or understanding these outcomes. These models can also be used to understand and re-invent macroeconomic policies. In this course we also aim to bring the themes in undergraduate macroeconomic studies closer to what is taught in graduate courses, and also closer to how macroeconomics is done in the best universities and policy institutions such as the U.S. Federal Reserve, the International Monetary Fund, the European Central Bank, Bank of England, the Reserve Banks of New Zealand and Australia."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
[14] "Managerial economics looks at the economics of decisions facing and impinging upon managers, the central decision makers in firms.  This includes a discussion of the nature of the firm and looking at relationships between managers and owners and between managers and other employees.  Consideration will be given to the nature of decision-making in different market structures and how a manager is constrained by the market structure in which their firm operates.  We will discuss pricing strategies in different contexts and also look at some economics of information as it relates to managerial decision making."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
[15] "The foundations of economic theory are based on mathematical models. Thus, a thorough understanding of the economic content of such models is not possible without a clear understanding of the mathematical concepts that underpin the modeling. Together with ECON4414 - Mathematical Techniques in Economics II, this course forms a two-semester sequence, which introduces students to a range of mathematical concepts and techniques that form the basis of advanced economic theory courses, such as the ones required of students enrolled in Honours, Masters and PhD programs. The introduced concepts and techniques will be derived from basic principles and assumptions as thoroughly as possible, and will be illustrated using standard applications from economics.  Due to the strong interdependence between the topics covered in the two courses, students are encouraged to take both courses as a sequence in the same year. "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
[16] "The course will focus on Microeconomic theory as an approach to organizing economic ideas through modelling. This course will examine some basic components of economic theory concerning the allocation of scarce resources:individual non-strategic decision making by consumers and firms, Markets and General Equilibrium, Game Theory for extending the models of consumers and producers to strategic settings (with an emphasis on asymmetric information and mechanism design), and models of how decisions are made in non market settings through political institutions or within firms. Along the way we will consider how to include uncertainty in models and how to establish the existence of equilibria/optima and the comparative static properties of these predicted outcomes. "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
[17] "The course examines how individuals and firms make decisions by weighing up costs and benefits, and how the interaction of their decisions leads to market and social outcomes. The model of market supply and demand is employed to examine the effects of taxes, subsidies, and other government interventions in market activity. The implications of different market structures, including perfect competition and monopoly, are examined.  Public goods, externalities and common resources are key examples of cases in which private markets may yield socially sub-optimal outcomes.  Such cases are examined and the role of government policy in correcting for these is discussed."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
[18] "Building upon material introduced in Microeconomics 1, this course aims to provide a solid understanding of basic microeconomic theory and the ability to apply those tools and ideas. Models describing the economic behaviour of individual decision-makers and the outcomes of markets are developed and applied to examine the welfare of market participants. Questions addressed include: What influences consumer demand decisions and how? How do firms decide on how much to produce and how much inputs to use? How do prices function to coordinate economic activity? What is meant by economic efficiency? When do markets fail to achieve efficient outcomes? Training in economic analysis is achieved via weekly tutorials that go over problem sets linked to material presented in lecture. Overall, the course takes an analytical approach emphasising rigorous logical reasoning and economic problem solving."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
[19] "Modern economics is a way of thinking that provides important insights into human behaviour and how the world works. The emphasis in Microeconomics 3 is on deepening students' understanding of the basic principles of microeconomics and learning how to use these principles to analyse real world problems and policy issues. The course builds upon the material covered in Microeconomics 1 and 2 by treating some of the concepts introduced in previous microeconomic courses with greater degree of formality. The course also covers more advanced tools of microeconomic theory and applications of the theory to a range of economic problems. Topics and techniques that are emphasized include: concepts and measurement of individual and aggregate consumer welfare, partial and general equilibrium efficiency analysis, choice under uncertainty and information economics."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
[20] "This course has two main objectives. One is to study the role played by banks in modern monetary economies and financial markets, including issues arising from bank regulation, the role of banks in financial intermediation, and the significance of bank behaviour in monetary policy. This includes analysis of monetary innovations through crypto-currencies such as \"bit-coin\", and the shadow banking systems that played a significant role in the Global Financial Crisis. The second objective is to study the operation of monetary policy generally, in large economies such as the USA, and in small open economies such as Australia."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
[21] "The foundations of economic theory are based on mathematical models. Thus, a thorough understanding of the economic content of such models is not possible without a clear understanding of the mathematical concepts that underpin the modeling. Together with ECON2127 - Mathematics for Economists B, this course forms a two-semester sequence, which introduces students to a range of mathematical concepts and techniques that form the basis of advanced economic theory courses, such as the ones required of students enrolled in Honours, Masters and PhD programs. The introduced concepts and techniques will be derived from basic principles and assumptions as thoroughly as possible, and will be illustrated using standard applications from economics."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
[22] "This course uses the basic tools of microeconomics to analyse the role of government and the rationale for and design of taxation and  expenditure policy. The topics to be covered include a review of basic microeconomics, welfare economics, cost-benefit analysis,  public goods,  externalities,  public choice, public expenditure programs (including education, health, pensions and welfare payments),  and taxation (including efficiency and equity issues, tax incidence, Australian tax policy, and fiscal federalism). By the end of the course students should have an appreciation of the principal forms of market failure that provide a justification for government intervention, be familiar with the main policy instruments used to mitigate market failures and the principles that guide their optimal use, but also understand the limitations of government intervention - for instance, understand how the presence of information problems both explains the forms that policy intervention take and imposes limits on what can be achieved by it. The course also covers topics on public choice and provides an alternative, more critical, view of government. The public choice perspective places more emphasis on modelling the political process and argues that this, like the market mechanism, has readily identifiable sources of failure. "
[23] "This course is the advanced version of ECON2131 Public Sector Economics  instead of Public Economics - Theory. The course is taught at a more advanced level for undergraduate students enrolled at the Honours level."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
[24] "This course uses the basic tools of microeconomics to analyse the role of government and the rationale for and design of taxation and  expenditure policy. Emphasis is placed on attaining a solid grasp of the basic theory of public economics. The topics to be covered include a review of basic microeconomics, welfare economics, cost-benefit analysis,  public goods,  externalities,  public choice, public expenditure programs (including education, health, pensions and welfare payments),  and taxation (including efficiency and equity issues, tax incidence, Australian tax policy, and fiscal federalism)."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
[25] "This Special Topics course (reading course) in Macroeconomics will cover a large amount of material and special advanced topics in Macroeconomics that are not covered in regular RSE courses. Topics will be delivered at higher level and tailored to Lecturer/Student needs."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
[26] "This Special Topics course will cover a specific material in dynamic programming and stochastic processes as they apply to economics."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
[27] "This Special topics course (reading course) in Microeconomics will cover a large amount of material and special advanced topics in Microeconomics that are not covered in regular RSE courses and topics will be delivered at higher level and tailored to Lecturer/Student needs."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
[28] "In many - perhaps most - economic, political, legal and social interactions, there is potential for strategic behaviour, a term, “intended to focus on the interdependence of the adversaries' decisions and on their expectations about each other's behaviour.” (Schelling, 1960, The Strategy of Conflict).   Recognising and understanding such behaviour is an essential part of any analyst's toolkit and this course is designed to enable just such recognition and understanding. Game theory has successfully been applied in a diverse range of fields, such as economics, political science, military analysis, law, biology and computer science.The aim of this course is to provide an introduction to strategic thinking and analysis through the basic techniques of game theory and to illustrate the range of its applications in almost all fields of social interaction.  While the level of the course will be introductory, and mathematical prerequisites are minimal, the presentation of the material will rely on precise logical arguments.  This course should be of interest to students from any part of the University. "                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
