 [1] "This course consists of a series of advanced modules from the discipline areas of geochemistry, petrology and tectonics. The course combines advanced theory in these areas with integrated case studies and applications related to current research topics. The course is relevant to understanding the fundamental principles of the geological processes that affect the solid Earth. The course will focus on the physical and chemical characteristic (including isotopic systems) of minerals, fluids and melts and how they influence the differentiation of Earth and contributed to its evolution over time."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
 [2] "This course provides an introduction to powerful analytical techniques used to determine the elemental and isotopic compositions of Earth materials such as rocks, minerals, microfossils, corals and water."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
 [3] "This course consists of a series of advanced modules from the discipline areas of water science, marine geosciences and aqueous geochemistry. The course combines advanced theory in these areas with integrated case studies and applications related to current research topics. The course is highly relevant for the reconstruction of past and present environments using water quality measurements and the remains of organisms. There is special emphasis on how these disciplines are used to constrain regional and global climate change."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
 [4] "Data analysis is the most powerful tool we have for separating scientific fact from fiction. The aim of this course is to provide an introduction to statistical and numerical techniques that are useful in the analysis and characterisation of geological data. A focus will be placed on conceptual understanding of how specific methods work and the situations in which they can and cannot be applied. A number of practical examples will be discussed during the course, providing the opportunity for hands-on learning through the processing of real data sets with statistical software and data evaluation programs. The experience gained in this course will help students approach their own research problems."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
 [5] "Honours in Geology/Earth and Marine Science is offered as an additional year of study for the Bachelor of Science program."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
 [6] "Geophysics is crucial in our understanding of Earth's history, structure and physical conditions. This course will provide a practical introduction to Global Geophysics with an emphasis on Earth's internal and surface processes. Global Geophysics will bring together the structure and dynamics of the Earth in terms of processes varying on scales from the microscopic to the whole planet. Topics will include; plate tectonic theory, earthquakes, seismic waves, heat transport, mantle convection, magnetic and gravity fields, deep Earth structure, geophysical data analysis, and deformation of the solid Earth."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
 [7] "This course combines state-of-the-art knowledge from geology, geophysics, geochemistry and other fields of earth sciences to understand the natural processes that have hazardous impacts on society. This course focusses on soil hazards, landslides, earthquakes, tsunamis, volcanic eruptions, floods, tropical cylcones, severe weather, bushfires and coastal hazards. Further, the impact of climate change on these hazards is discussed.Lectures in this course are designed as an introduction to the topic and provide students with the scientific principles that underpin each of the major natural hazards. Practicals and one-day fieldtrips (free of charge) are used to illustrate and discuss aspects of each hazard and train hazard and risk assessment practise. Discussion sessions focus on recent scientific findings published in peer-reviewed journals and will train critical reading, thinking and analytical skills."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
 [8] "The structural geology component of the course introduces the basic concepts of brittle and ductile deformation processes and how they control the strength, mechanical behaviour and development of structures in the Earth's continental crust. The course provides a basic understanding of the forces driving deformation, and the displacements and strains associated with simple crustal deformations. Emphasis is placed on (1) illustrating how deformation processes change under the influence of changing pressures and temperatures with increasing depth in the lithosphere, and (2) examining the basic types of structures produced by single episodes of brittle and ductile deformation of the continental crust, and how their styles and geometries vary as a function of depth in the continental crust."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
 [9] "The structural geology component of the course introduces the basic concepts  of brittle and ductile deformation processes and how they control the strength,  mechanical behaviour and development of structures in the Earth's continental  crust. The course provides a basic understanding of the forces driving  deformation, and the displacements and strains associated with simple crustal  deformations. Emphasis is placed on (1) illustrating how deformation processes  change under the influence of changing pressures and temperatures with  increasing depth in the lithosphere, and (2) examining the basic types of  structures produced by single episodes of brittle and ductile deformation of the  continental crust, and how their styles and geometries vary as a function of  depth in the continental crust."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
[10] "This course focuses on a multidisciplinary approach to understand the processes and environments in which magmatic and metamorphic rocks form, including the following topics: the relations between crystallisation and deformation in metamorphic rocks and their link to evolution of orogens; reconstruction of plate tectonic processes from detailed investigation at a grain scale; construction and detailed interpretation of phase diagrams; the role of fluid phases and the use of trace elements, radiogenic and stable isotopes to constrain magmatic and metamorphic processes. In addition, the rates of processes are explored: are these fast and furious, or slow and steady."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
[11] "This course focuses on a multidisciplinary approach to understand the  processes and environments in which magmatic and metamorphic rocks form,  including the following topics: the relations between crystallisation and  deformation in metamorphic rocks and their link to evolution of orogens;  reconstruction of plate tectonic processes from detailed investigation at a  grain scale; construction and detailed interpretation of phase diagrams; the  role of fluid phases and the use of trace elements, radiogenic and stable  isotopes to constrain magmatic and metamorphic processes. In addition, the rates  of processes are explored: are these fast and furious, or slow and  steady.\tLaboratory: Characterisation and interpretation of microstructures in  magmatic and metamorphic rocks using optical and electron microscopes,  construction and interpretation of phase diagrams, selected excursions to  Canberra and surroundings."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
[12] "This is an advanced course that explores the relationships between marine chemistry, marine biological and geochemical processes - with a focus on developing an understanding of the interplay and responses between ocean chemistry, marine biology and global change. Topics covered include the theory and application of chemical and isotopic tracers in oceanography and palaeoceanography, macro- and micro-nutrient cycling, sediment and suspended particulate interactions, element speciation, and biomineralization. Practical work will cover a range of standard and sophisticated laboratory methods for nutrients, elemental, isotopic and chemical speciation analysis, as well as a field sampling excursion to the South Coast of NSW."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
[13] "This is an advanced course that explores the relationships between marine  chemistry, marine biological and geochemical processes - with a focus on  developing an understanding of the interplay and responses between ocean  chemistry, marine biology and global change. Topics covered include the theory  and application of chemical and isotopic tracers in oceanography and  palaeoceanography, macro- and micro-nutrient cycling, sediment and suspended  particulate interactions, element speciation, and biomineralization. Practical  work will cover a range of standard and sophisticated laboratory methods for  nutrients, elemental, isotopic and chemical speciation analysis, as well as a  field sampling excursion to the South Coast of NSW."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
[14] "Changes in Earth's temperature cause changes in the size of the polar ice caps, with corresponding changes in global sea levels as water moves between the oceans and the continental ice sheets. Sea levels are currently rising as a result of present-day increases in global mean temperature and some claim that West Antarctica and Greenland glaciers are melting rapidly.  But how are changes in ice and ocean volumes estimated?"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
[15] "Changes in Earth's temperature cause changes in the size of the polar ice caps, with corresponding changes in global sea levels as water moves between the oceans and the continental ice sheets. Sea levels are currently rising as a result of present-day increases in global mean temperature and some claim that West Antarctica and Greenland glaciers are melting rapidly.  But how are changes in ice and ocean volumes estimated?"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
[16] "The structure and dynamic processes of the Earth are measured, quantified and understood by utilizing principles and methods from the physical sciences. Core areas of study include seismology, geodynamics, geodesy and geophysical fluid dynamics. A variety of course work from these fields is on offer, in addition to a supervised research project worth 50% of the final mark. The goal of Physics of the Earth Honours is to gain a solid grounding in quantitative analysis of physical processes based on both theory and observation. For example, plate tectonics, in which distinct pieces of the rigid outer shell of the Earth constantly move and interact due to internal heating, manifests in seismic (e.g. earthquakes), geodetic (e.g. GPS displacement) and geodynamic (e.g. crustal deformation) observation. Evidence from these fields of study have been central to gaining a better understanding of convection within the Earth's mantle, and how the continents have shifted and deformed over time. More specifically, coursework will cover seismic wave propagation, earthquake source mechanisms and seismic imaging; fundamental concepts in fluid dynamics and their application to the Earth (e.g. Buoyancy driven flow in the ocean); sea level change and variations in polar ice cap volumes from satellite data; the physical behaviour of minerals and rocks at pressures and temperatures encountered deep within the Earth; and theory and numerical methods for solving geophysical inverse and data inference problems."
[17] "This course provides an introduction into research methods relevant to Earth Sciences through a series of lectures, seminars and tutorials. Students learn how to conduct and present research as well as conducting a thorough literature review for their own research project that they will undertake in EMSC4005 or EMSC4008."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
[18] "The influence of changing pressure, temperature and chemical environment on the origin and occurrence of different classes of minerals and rocks will be discussed. Rocks and minerals are investigated in hand specimens and in thin sections under the microscope. Simple phase relations and phase diagrams relevant to important mineral groups will be examined, in the context of explaining formation and properties of minerals and rocks. Other aspects explored will be the characteristics and economic significance of the most important ore and gem minerals, and the properties of minerals that may cause health problems."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
[19] "Common crustal and upper mantle rock types will be studied, with emphasis on their formation and mineralogy, leading to rock-type classification. Study of the important rock types in the Earth is combined with the investigation of the common rock-forming minerals, with particular emphasis on those minerals that comprise the bulk of the Earth's crust and upper mantle."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
[20] "This course will cover:"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
[21] "This course will cover:"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
[22] "This course allows a special topic of study for individuals or small groups of students who wish to gain particular or additional knowledge in a topic in Earth Science not covered in other courses taught at the Research School of Earth Sciences or elsewhere in the University."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
[23] "This course allows a special topic of study for individuals or small groups of students who wish to gain particular or additional knowledge in a topic in earth science not covered in other courses taught in the School or elsewhere in the University."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
[24] "This course allows a special topic of study for individuals or small groups of students who wish to gain particular or additional knowledge in a topic in earth science not covered in other courses taught in the School or elsewhere in the University."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
[25] "This course allows a special topic of study for individuals or small groups of students who wish to gain particular or additional knowledge in a topic in Earth Science not covered in other courses taught at the Research School of Earth Sciences or elsewhere in the University."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
[26] "This course allows a special topic of study for individuals or small groups of students who wish to gain particular or additional knowledge in a topic in earth science not covered in other courses taught in the School or elsewhere in the University."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
[27] "This course will introduce students to topics of current interest, taking advantage of the expertise of visitors and staff."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
[28] "This course is designed to develop an advanced understanding of deformation processes and structures produced by displacement and deformation in the Earth's lithosphere at scales ranging from the tectonic plate scale, down to the crystal lattice scale. Emphasis is placed on understanding (1) the geometry and types of structures produced by complex crustal deformation histories involving contractional, extensional and wrench regimes, (2) the deformation processes which control the microstructural evolution of deformed rocks, (3) factors influencing the strength and mechanical behaviour of the Earth's crust and underlying mantle lithosphere, (4) deformational controls on crustal-scale fluid flow and applications to understanding ore genesis and earthquake processes, and (5) the large-scale geodynamic processes controlling plate motions and crustal deformation."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
[29] "This course is designed to develop an advanced understanding of deformation processes and structures produced by displacement and deformation in the Earth's lithosphere at scales ranging from the tectonic plate scale, down to the crystal lattice scale. Emphasis is placed on understanding (1) the geometry and types of structures produced by complex crustal deformation histories involving contractional, extensional and wrench regimes, (2) the deformation processes which control the microstructural evolution of deformed rocks, (3) factors influencing the strength and mechanical behaviour of the Earth's crust and underlying mantle lithosphere, (4) deformational controls on crustal-scale fluid flow and applications to understanding ore genesis and earthquake processes, and (5) the large-scale geodynamic processes controlling plate motions and crustal deformation."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
[30] "This course provides an introduction to Earth Systems Science, a new field of science that investigates how chemical, physical, and biological processes interact to shape and regulate Earth's environment.  If you want to understand the science behind climate change or have been wondering to what extent current global environmental change is being forced by natural processes and human activities, this course is for you. Students from both science and non-science backgrounds are welcome.  In addition, this is a foundation course for students interested in or wanting to pursue earth, marine or water sciences."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
[31] "This course provides an introduction to Earth Systems Science, a new field of science that investigates how chemical, physical, and biological processes interact to shape and regulate Earth's environment. If you want to understand the science behind climate change or have been wondering to what extent current global environmental change is being forced by natural processes and human activities, this course is for you.Students from both science and non-science backgrounds are welcome. In addition, this is a foundation course for students interested in or wanting to pursue earth, marine or water sciences."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
