 [1] "This course introduces students to concepts of mechanics as they apply to human movement, particularly those pertaining to exercise, sport, and physical activity and to teach engineering skills needed to solve challenges in the biomaterials and tissue engineering area. The student should gain advanced knowledge and analysing skills  on the mechanical and anatomical principles that govern human motion and develop the ability to link the structure of the human body with its function from a mechanical perspective. The course also introduces students to a spectrum of materials used in biomedical engineering, biological-biomaterials interactions, host responses, and materials evaluations."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
 [2] "This course covers the physical concept behind the bio-signal transduction that leads to the acquisition of signals from a biological system. It will also provide a framework towards the understanding of interpretation of these signals into multi-dimensional data for imaging and analysis. The images or signal are then used for understanding biological systems and also diagnostics purposes.  Key concept behind these techniques such as MRI, ultrasound, biophotonics, microscopy, EEG, and medical imaging processing will be taught in this course. There will be examples of qualitative performance in the context of molecular and clinical settings."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
 [3] "This subject introduces students to understanding of the fundamental problems in computer vision, and their state-of-the-art solutions.   Topics covered in detail include: camera geometry, image formation, image filtering, thresholding and image segmentation, edge, point and line detection, geometric frameworks for vision, single view and two views geometry;  3D modelling and reconstruction, camera calibration; stereo vision, motion and optical flow;  object recognition, appearance based scene recognition;  pose estimation in perspective images, etc.  The course is featured by an extensive practical component including computer labs and term projects that provides the students with a tool box of skills in image processing and computer vision."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
 [4] NA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
 [5] "This course presents the principles and techniques fundamental to the analysis and design of digital communication systems. It focuses on the basic building blocks of a digital communication system (channel encoder/decoder, digital modulator/demodulator and channel characteristics). The emphasis is on mathematical underpinnings of communications theory along with practical applications. Specific topics include:"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
 [6] "This course provides an introduction to the analysis and design of digital systems and microprocessors. Key topics follow. Review of combinational logic analysis and design. Analysis and design of synchronous finite state machines and register transfer level systems. Computer-aided design of digital electronic systems using real-world software packages. A detailed introduction to the VERILOG hardware description language. Extensive hardware labs involving the implementation of digital systems in FPGA programmable logic devices. Microprocessor devices, basic architecture principles and instruction sets. Hardware interpretation of instruction execution. Basics of the Assembly language and introductory C programming. Co-design of digital hardware and microprocessor systems. Simple embedded programming applied to the AVR microcontroller architecture."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
 [7] "Discovering Engineering engages students in engineering and provides a foundation of skills and knowledge for the rest of their engineering and academic studies.  It introduces three aspects of engineering: disciplines; skills and practice; and responsibilities, which are interwoven throughout the course to enhance student learning.  Disciplines are explored through research-led guest lectures across fields within engineering and computer science.  Supplemented by industry guest lectures these highlight the relevance and importance to modern engineering of the systems approach which encompasses the ANU's engineering philosophy and program."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
 [8] "Digital Signal Processing (DSP) has become over the years an important tool with applications in Electrical and Mechanical Engineering fields. DSP has penetrated many domains of applications, such as digital communications, medical imaging, audio & video systems, consumer electronics, robotics, remote sensing, finance etc. The Discrete-Time Signal Processing paradigm is a convenient setting to analyse the basic principles of DSP. At the end of this course, the students should be able to understand these basic principles, and apply fundamental algorithms and methods to analyse and design discrete-time systems for modern DSP applications. Though the course will focus on the study of theoretical concepts, methods and algorithms, the student will be confronted with application and implementation issues, through various examples and assignments requiring personal computer work including processing of real-world signals. ENGN 4537 Discrete Time Signal Processing builds directly on Signals & Systems Theory (ENGN2228 Signal Processing) by developing the students' understanding of the principles of advanced signal processing theory. Specific Topics include:"                                                             
 [9] "ENGN2218 Electrical Systems & Design builds directly on ENGN1218 Introduction to Electrical Systems by developing the students' understanding of the principles and operation of advanced electronic circuits and devices (bipolar junction transistor, operational amplifier, filters, digital logic gates, ADC and DAC, 555 Timer and Instrumentation amplifiers). It also emphasizes the importance of modelling the behaviour of complex electronic circuits and devices using systematic mathematical techniques. Specific topics include:"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
[10] "The aim of this course is to use the internship experience to enable students to develop their engineering skills and practice. Invited Students will be placed in industry, working full-time and assessed for academic credit. The internships will be aligned with the aims of the engineering program and its areas of specialisation. Students will experience a real-life engineering workplace and understand how their engineering and professional skills and knowledge can be utilised in industry. They will also be able to demonstrate functioning engineering knowledge, both new and existing, and identify areas of further development for their future careers."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
[11] "Engineering management introduces students to a range of people and technical orientated issues in management. Students are provided with concrete strategies for addressing these issues within practical, relevant and contemporary contexts."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
[12] "This unit takes a detailed look at various engineering materials and the essential properties behind them. There is an emphasis towards energy-related properties and forming properties. Materials studied in detail include energy ceramics, ferrous metal systems, non-ferrous metal systems and polymers. Property-related topics include plasticity analysis for metal forming operations, electrochemical properties, electrical properties, dielectric properties, energy storage properties, thermoelectric properties and electrochromic properties. The lecture material is delivered through on-line techniques and weekly small group sessions combined with extensive laboratory components are used to facilitate the understanding of this material. Underpinning this course will be frequent contextualizing through the idea of nanostructuring of established engineering materials."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
[13] "This course is one of a suite of research and development courses designed for the BE (R&D) Program. These courses are of varying length and are offered at different stages of the degree program and are essentially stand-alone research projects. ENGN3706 is a 6-unit research course designed to complement the students' basic research skills through non-trivial research work in an area chosen by the student. The course forms part of the 42-unit R&D major that is a compulsory component of the aforementioned degree program. Each student will have their research supervised by one or more academic supervisors, with the approval of Head of Department or the Delegated Authority. Students are responsible for engaging and obtaining appropriate supervisory support."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
[14] "This course is one of a suite of research and development courses designed for the BE (R&D) Program. These courses are of varying length and are offered at different stages of the degree program and are essentially stand-alone research projects. ENGN4712 is a 12-unit research course designed to complement the students' basic research skills through non-trivial research work in an area chosen by the student. The course forms part of the 42-unit R&D major that is a compulsory component of the aforementioned degree program. Each student will have their research supervised by one or more academic supervisors, with the approval of Head of Department or the Delegated Authority. Students are responsible for engaging and obtaining appropriate supervisory support."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
[15] "This course is one of a suite of research and development courses designed for the BE (R&D) program. These courses are varying length and are offered at different stages of the degree program and are essentially stand-alone research projects. ENGN3712 is a 12 unit research course designed to complement the student's basic research skills through non-trivial research work in an area chosen by the student."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
[16] "This course is one of a suite of research and development courses designed for the BE (R&D) Program. These courses are of varying length and are offered at different stages of the degree program and are essentially stand-alone research projects. ENGN4706 is a 6-unit research course designed to complement the students' basic research skills through non-trivial research work in an area chosen by the student. The course forms part of the 42-unit R&D major that is a compulsory component of the aforementioned degree program. Each student will have their research supervised by one or more academic supervisors, with the approval of Head of Department or the Delegated Authority. Students are responsible for engaging and obtaining appropriate supervisory support."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
[17] "This course is one of a suite of research and development courses designed for the BE (R&D) Program. These courses are of varying length and are offered at different stages of the degree program and are essentially stand-alone research projects. ENGN4718 is an 18-unit research course designed to complement the students' basic research skills through non-trivial research work in an area chosen by the student."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
[18] "This course is the introductory course for the R&D major which BE (R&D) students have to complete. The course introduces students to some fundamentals of research methodology, and gives students first hand experience by having them carry out a small research project, under close supervision by a member of academic staff."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
[19] "Introduction to materials science for structural, electrical, magnetic, and optical engineering applications. Atomic bonding, atomic basis of physical and chemical properties. The crystalline state; crystal structures and imperfections. The amorphous state; structure of metallic, inorganic and organic glasses. Multiphase materials, phase rule, binary phase diagrams of iron-carbon, aluminium-copper and ceramic examples. Kinetics of nucleation and crystal growth, atomic diffusion. Microstructures, TTT diagrams, heat treatment, hardening. Magnetism, hard and soft magnets, ceramic magnets. Electronic structure of solids; electronic conductivity, piezo- and pyro-electricity, solar cells. Materials in optical fibres, transparency, dispersion and IR absorption. Environmental degradation and corrosion of materials."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
[20] "Students enrol in this course when they have been approved to participate in formal exchange with one of The Australian National University's exchange partners. Please contact your program authority for further details regarding exchanges."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
[21] "Optical fibres now constitute the backbone of the world's long-distance telecommunications systems and are also being used increasingly in other areas, such as sensing, biophotonics, automotive, etc. The course sets out to provide a basic understanding of optical transmission systems concentrating on light propagation along fibres and light processing using fibre- and planar waveguide-based devises. Light propagation includes: modal propagation and Maxwell's equations; ray tracing, Snell's and Fesnel's Laws; single-mode, multi-mode and special fibres; pulse propagation and dispersions; nonlinear effects; fibre and planar waveguide fabrication; analytical and numerical techniques; birefringence and bend loss. Light processing devices include: couplers and splitters; gratings and arrayed waveguide gratings; Mach-Zehnder and multimode interferometers; optical amplifiers and attenuators; polarisers.  With knowledge of the basic physical principles of these key photonic components we consider how they affect the practical performance and limits; and how they influence the design of real-world telecommunication systems.  Laboratory work covers mainly hands-on fibre-based experiments and some numerical simulations."
[22] "This course explores the fundamental concepts of fluid mechanics and heat transfer, and their applications in engineering. The course begins by introducing analysis of static fluid bodies and then continues with fluid dynamics, principally the effects of viscous and thermal boundary layers. Fluid conservation equations are presented in detail. Fluid conveyancing through pipework and external flow analysis complete the coursework on fluids. The concept of boundary layer behaviour is then extended to heat transfer. Conduction, convection are treated at a fundamental level, leading to analysis and design of heat exchangers. Finally, radiation heat transfer is presented in a wider context."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
[23] "Students undertake an individual engineering project, with supervision.Students are encouraged to put forward their own ideas for the individual project, or they may select a project from a range of ideas offered by researchers across the ANU. If the student initiates an idea, he or she must find a supervisor to accept the project."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
[24] "This subject introduces the elements of a number of basic manufacturing processes and associated materials behaviour required in the design of mechanical devices. The configuration of machine tools is discussed in the context of orthogonal cutting and the basics of materials deformation processes, including, casting, forging, sheet-metal forming and polymer processing, are developed. Graphical representation techniques include sectioning, conventional representations, dimensioning, tolerancing, and further develops computer-aided design skills (CAD). Also included are 24 hours of practical workshop experience with assorted hand and machine tools to produce a manufactured article."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
[25] NA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
[26] NA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
[27] "Photovoltaic electric systems have become an important area of engineering and are expected to become a mainstream source of energy in the near future. They are an example of interdisciplinary systems engineering, where basic electronic materials science is combined with power electronics, mechanical design, control systems and economic optimisation. The course will give an overview of the solar energy resource and will cover photovoltaic approaches to conversion to electricity in detail. The physics and fabrication of silicon solar cells, including a discussion of the trade-offs between cost, fabrication complexity and performance will be presented. Economic, technical and societal issues that must be considered and dealt with in the design of Photovoltaic systems will be covered. Computer modelling of photovoltaic systems will be used to reinforce understanding and acquire a familiarity with engineering tools for PV system design."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
[28] "The BE degree at the ANU is accredited by the Engineers Australia. A requirement of Engineers Australia, as part of the degree accreditation, is that ALL students MUST complete the equivalent of 12 weeks of full-time work experience outside the University during their studies. This is implemented in the BE degree at the ANU as the ENGN3100 course. Besides accreditation, the work experience has the following two purposes:"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
[29] NA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
[30] "In the 21st century, humanity faces grand challenges in the sustainability of the world. Materials engineering has a critical role to play in this field, as many approaches to addressing the challenges are material-related. This course will provide students a learning opportunity in sustainable development from a materials engineering point of view, with a particular emphasis on advanced nanomaterials. The course will discuss the use of advanced materials and nanomaterials not only in the field of energy (generation, storage, saving) but also environment, water, transportation, health, infrastructure and food security, including the environmental and social impacts of nanomaterials innovation.  "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
[31] NA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
[32] "This course provides a framework for the interdisciplinary systems engineering program. It outlines the design process for an engineering product or service. The systems approach is used to give students an understanding of how to integrate the technical engineering disciplines required to solve complex problems. This approach is traditionally applied to highly technical engineering problems. However, students will also see how sustainable design principles can be introduced to the design process in order to accommodate environmental considerations.Specific topics include:"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
[33] "This course is designed to mimic an industrial design problem as closely as practical in a university setting. Students are assigned to teams and given an ill-defined problem statement. From the problem statement, the students are responsible for developing the full set of requirements and key performance indicators to guide the design. The students then proceed through a systems design process including conceptual design, sub-system requirements, and quantitative tradeoff analyses, using the full range of engineering science and professional skills developed during the degree course. The course emphasises teamwork (both team leadership and membership), communication skills (formal and informal, written and oral), and team and personal management and a professional approach to engineering design."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
