 [1] "This course introduces students to the academic research in corporate finance. Corporate finance theory deals with the roles of corporate in the capital market and the interactions between investors, managers, regulators and other stakeholders. The objectives of this course are to learn the theories of corporate finance, analyze the research questions, and critically evaluate the academic papers.This course focuses on selected classic and contemporary theoretical and empirical academic papers and provides students with an advanced and rigorous background in mainstream issues in modern corporate finance research.At the end of the seminar, it is expected that the students have developed an appreciation of the role of theory in corporate finance research, an in-depth knowledge of the research methods and philosophies employed in researching a wide range of corporate finance problems and issues, and an ability to critically analyze, and evaluate the literature in corporate finance."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
 [2] "The objective of this course is to familiarize students with the seminal and contemporary literature on selected topics in theoretical, empirical and applied finance as it relates to investment analysis. The material and structure of the course is designed to provide students with an advanced understanding of investment decision making. The course is directed at postgraduate and honour students and is designed for students wishing to pursue higher level studies or a career relating to investment analysis and decision making.  The course material builds on undergraduate studies in the area of investments.  The material is heavily orientated to research issues and their practical problems."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
 [3] "This course provides an overview of current Asian capital markets. The growth of Asian economies has been spectacular in the past 60 years; the advancement of Japan from the 1950s until the beginning of 1990s, the emerging Asian Tigers (Hong Kong, Korea, Singapore, Taiwan) in the 1980s, and the rapid transformation and growth of China and India since the 1990s. Asian capital markets are quite diverse as they consist of emerging markets at different stages of development as well as mature markets. Therefore, it is not easy to view Asian capital markets through a single lens. However, this course not only introduces students to capital markets in various Asian countries but also attempts at introducing a unified conceptual framework to understand markets in these countries. The framework focuses on institutional environments (such as legal systems) in different countries and their impacts on corporate behaviour. We also present empirical evidence that such a framework might not necessarily explain the recent developments in China and India. Two of the important features in Asian capital markets, which contrast those of capital markets in UK-US, are the roles played by the State and closely tied families, which we will discuss in detail. The globalization of the world economy in the past two decades has affected the developments of Asian capital markets. Although our course may discuss the development of capital markets of individual countries, we will discuss Asian economies in the global context and will explore the increasing weight of Asia in the world economy."
 [4] "Continuous Time Finance provides an introduction to the theory and practice of derivative pricing and hedging. The aim of this course is to provide students with the mathematical skills needed for the valuation of derivatives. Focus will be on the application of results rather than their mathematical derivation. These tools will be applied to derive the famous Black-Scholes formula, to price options on currencies, and to interest-rate derivatives."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
 [5] "This course is an introductory course in financial management. It builds upon the basic concepts introduced in the Foundations of Finance (FINM1001) and stresses the modern fundamentals of corporate financial decision making with special reference to investment, financing and dividend distribution. While building upon introductory courses in accounting, economics and quantitative analysis the course develops distinctive conceptual frameworks and specialised tools for solving real world financial problems at both the individual and corporate level. The course is a blend of theory and practice. While diligent practice will make you competent in financial techniques, a good grasp of theory will help you think systematically about ways to solve a problem for which no existing technique is suitable or available.Specific topics to be covered include: financial mathematics, security valuation, techniques for capital investment decisions, financial decision making, corporate capital structure, cost of capital, dividend decision and policy, leasing decision and the analysis of mergers and acquisitions. "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
 [6] "Corporate Valuation is a “capstone” finance course that draws on core corporate finance principles, theories and methods previously studies.  Students will work in teams to value an existing company, present their analysis and investment recommendation.  The techniques covered include discounted cash flow, multiple-based and asset-based valuations.  Because of the richness of the approach, most of the focus will be on discounted cash flow analysis.  While this entails more work and requires significant student initiative, this type of 'learning by doing' should provide a lasting framework."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
 [7] "This unit is designed to further students' understanding of futures and options contracts and their use in managing risk. It builds upon material covered in FINM1001: Foundations of Finance. FINM2002 provides an overview of options, futures, forwards and swaps on a range of underlying assets/commodities including stocks, interest rates, foreign exchange as well as more exotic instruments such as weather and electricity derivatives. The models used for pricing these instruments will be covered as well as techniques used for risk management. "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
 [8] "This course requires students to complete a 24 unit honours thesis in finance. Students will undertake independent research in finance under the guidance of a supervisor. At completion of this thesis course, students will have developed the capacity to perform high-level independent research, and have an in-depth knowledge of their chosen research topic."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
 [9] "This course covers the theory and practice of financial intermediation, broadly construed to include banks, savings institutions and investment/merchant banks. Topics will include the role of banking firms in a developed capital market, their impact on corporate financial decisions for non-banking firms, and the regulation of banks. The course includes a comprehensive analysis of the role of financial intermediaries in the development of fixed-income markets and provides an analysis of fixed income securities. Additional topics include models and techniques used for managing credit risk, interest rate risk and liquidity risk. These are applied to maturity matching, duration and immunization, loan sales, securitization, collateralized debt obligations (CDOs), and collateralized mortgage obligations (CMOs)."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
[10] "Foundations of Finance is designed to familiarise students with the components of the financial system as well as to introduce them to the three basic ideas underpinning finance, namely the time value of money, diversification and arbitrage.  In doing so, the course provides students with introductory exposure to financial transactions, institutions and markets including debt, equity, foreign exchange and derivative markets and the instruments traded therein. It also provides students with a solid foundation for later studies in finance."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
[11] "Investment is designed to prepare students for designing investment portfolios. It covers duties to clients, types of investment products, explores links between investment risk and return, introduces tools for use in portfolio construction, brings in analysis of fixed income products and introduces techniques to evaluate past investment performance."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
[12] "Portfolio Construction is a capstone elective that draws on previously studied investment principles, theories and techniques. The objective of this course is to enable students to synthesize the acquired financial theories and knowledge in the context of portfolio construction and asset allocation. It focuses on gaps in theory and how they can be managed in practice. Examples include challenges/realities in estimating and implementing portfolio optimization programs, role of liquidity, and importance of plan governance. It covers topics such as types of investors and their objectives; dimensions of risk; asset allocation; the nature and role of various asset classes (equity, fixed income, alternative assets, FX); building multi-manager portfolios, and implementation issues."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
[13] NA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
[14] "Students in this course will receive training in the management of the Student Managed Fund (SMF), under the guidance of course convenors and students enrolled in Student Managed Fund Extension. The primary task of students will be to provide support in formulating investment recommendations to be reviewed and endorsed by an Investment Advisory Committee that includes industry practitioners and ANU staff. The students will also be responsible for assisting in the day-to-day functions typical of a managed fund. An SMF Charter and Governance Structure Statement will set out the policies and procedures under which the SMF operates."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
[15] "Students in this course will be responsible for the management of the Student Managed Fund (SMF), under the guidance of course convenors. The primary task of students will be to make investment recommendations to be reviewed and endorsed by an Investment Advisory Committee that includes industry practitioners and ANU staff. Another key role of students enrolled in the course is to undertake management roles and be responsible for the day-to-day functions typical of a managed fund. An SMF Charter and Governance Structure will set out the policies and procedures under which the SMF operates."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
[16] NA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
