[1] "This multimedia course develops students' communication skills in Italian through practice in the recognition and production of different registers of the language. Idioms and registers will be studied in relation to their socio-cultural and historical framework. The course also outlines Italian linguistic history, Italy's dialects and today's neo-standard Italian. The study of different types of written and audio-visual texts (photographs, films, poems, short stories, interviews, critical reviews) will increase students' comprehension and literacy skills in Italian while also increasing their knowledge of Italian society. Specific topics covered may vary from year to year. The course may be completed more than once if a different topic is studied each time."
[2] "This course develops students' language competence while extending students' knowledge of contemporary Italian culture and society through study of a selection of written texts and films. The course integrates written and multi-media materials to increase students' fluency and accuracy in oral and written forms, including recognition and ability to use appropriately idiomatic forms of the language within their cultural context. Active language production is encouraged in classroom situations, structured conversations and oral presentations. Class time is divided between interactive language work using information from the Italian media, focus and reflection on form, and analysis of written and audiovisual materials."                                           
[3] "This course provides an introduction to Italian language and culture.  It is designed to give learners the knowledge and skills required to use Italian in a variety of daily contexts. The methodology employed adopts an intercultural perspective and integrates a communicative approach, aiming to develop all language skills, with linguistic reflection. Use is made of different media and authentic texts, in addition to the prescribed course materials. Class time is divided between interactive language work, linguistic and cultural reflection and computer aided language learning."                                                                                                                                                                                          
[4] "The aim of this course is to deepen and build upon the introductory grounding in Italian that students have gained by completing their first year of Italian, or equivalent. Audiovisual material and computer aided language teaching are incorporated into the classroom, and the course includes study of Italian songs to further students' linguistic and cultural learning. Active language production is encouraged in classroom situations such as role playing, structured conversations and reading and writing activities. Class time is divided between interactive language work, linguistic reflection and Italian culture and society. The assessment is designed to optimise learning through tasks that presume a holistic conception of language and culture learning."        
