[1] "The course uses Korean film to enhance students' ability to listen, speak, read and write Korean with nuance and sophistication. Films provide excellent learning tools for developing advanced level language skills and also for gaining historical and sociocultural understanding. Students will view a variety of films that touch on Korean history, culture and society.  The films will serve as a resource for modeling grammar and discourse patterns that are common in conversational Korean.  The lecture is largely designed to guide and facilitate students' active learning to gain advanced level Korean in both oral and written forms."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
[2] "This course introduces students to modern spoken Korean and to its writing system, Hangeul. In Korean 1 students begin to develop basic listening and reading comprehension as well as oral and written Korean communication skills. Emphasis is placed upon learning to recognize, pronounce and write the Korean alphabet and its most common consonant clusters. Students also will have the opportunity to learn a range of common sentence patterns and read and write basic sentences which allow them to write and speak about a range of everyday situations. Conversational situations covered in the course include meeting and greeting, describing possessions, and making basic use of honorifics in conversation and writing.   "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
[3] "Korean 3 emphasises practical language skills to further develop students' abilities to communicate in Korean in a wide range of daily situations. Competency in everyday spoken language is stressed, with lessons on formal and informal interaction with peers, and developing a vocabulary to navigate academic life. Students will be able to learn grammatical points and constructions that allow them to conduct appropriate forms of written and oral communication in frequently occurring situations: family life, communicating with teachers, telephone conversations, and navigating peer group communication. Studying in this course will also allow students to learn about the important role that cultural events like celebrations, milestones and festivals play in Korean life.   "                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
[4] "This course is designed for intermediate students and is aimed at developing student's writing skills and linguistic competence. Students will gain extensive practice in reading, composition and comprehension. Vocabulary skills are deepened by students learning to recognise and use a broad vocabulary encompassing terms encountered in news media, popular culture and current affairs. Building upon grammar covered in earlier courses students in Korean 5 will learn to express ideas using grammatically and stylistically appropriate language to the situation to state opinions, give explanations and make presentations involving opinions and abstract ideas. In this course emphasis is placed upon students learning to develop the skills needed to read and comprehend information relating to Korea in a variety of genres and topics such as culture, geography, economic and politics.    "                                                                                                                
[5] "This tertiary-level extension course for senior secondary students complements the existing ACT Beginning Korean language course and similar courses elsewhere in Australia. It uses role-play-based language learning and integrated content to provide students who have just started studying Korean with an opportunity to deepen their understanding of the language within authentic contexts by means of guided research into student-directed projects, and high-order content delivered in a university setting.Topics include: the evolution of Korean language since the start of the twentieth century; Gender and Korean language in the contemporary context; the impact of technology on the Korean Language; the influence of K-Pop on contemporary Korean.This course has been designed to be accessible to ab-initio learners of the language. The Korean Continuing-ANU H course for intermediate learners has a parallel course structure and approach, but will be assessed at an intermediate level of language"
