 [1] "Administrative Law examines the legal framework for controlling decision-making by Commonwealth, State and local government decision-makers in Australia. It focuses on the legal restraints upon government, and the role those restraints play in maintaining government accountability. The role played by courts, tribunals and Ombudsman and the opportunities available to the public to question government activity is examined. The course covers the core administrative law material required for admission purposes and for work in the area of law and government. The following topics will be covered:"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
 [2] "This course examines the structure and themes of Australian public law, providing a bridge to all other public law study in the curriculum. In essence, the course examines how public power is structured, distributed, and controlled in Australia. The distinctive roles played by the legislature, the executive and the judiciary receive special attention. Subsidiary themes in the course are protection of individual rights in the Australian legal system, and constitutional change and evolution in Australia. The following topics will be covered:"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
 [3] "The Clinical Youth Law Program is an elective course. Students who have completed 48 units of LAWS courses are eligible to enrol and places are allocated by quality of application and if necessary ballot."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
 [4] " "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
 [5] "The Community Law Clinical Program is a 6 unit elective course."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
 [6] "Conflict of Laws, also sometimes called Private International Law, is concerned with what happens in cases where not all of the facts are tied to one jurisdiction. In the federal system of Australia, this can occur both within a domestic intra-Australia context and in an international context. While this course deals with a number of specific theoretical frameworks, it is taught largely from a practical standpoint aimed at preparing lawyers for handling cases with trans-jurisdictional issues. The three core components of the course investigate:"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
 [7] NA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
 [8] "This course provides an understanding of Australian corporate law.  The course is structured to meet the admission requirements for practice as a legal practitioner in the Australian states and Territories.  The following topics will be covered:"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
 [9] "This course offers an opportunity to engage in a critical analysis of the criminal justice system and the criminal law, using some contemporary approaches from the fields of criminology, criminal justice, penology and sociolegal studies.The course will give students an opportunity to understand the role of key participants in the criminal justice field, including police, prosecutors, judicial officers, other law-makers from the legislative and executive arms of government, and defence lawyers. Students will analyse how criminalisation can occur, including examining  • why some behaviours/omissions/statuses are criminalised and others not;• the impact of discretionary choices by justice actors on the criminalisation of individuals;• the impact of criminalisation of some individuals on their social/cultural group;• the differential impact of the criminal justice system on some social/cultural  groups relative to others;• why indigenous people are so starkly overrepresented at all levels of the criminal justice system;• the role and extent of summary justice in the criminal justice system; and,• the impact on criminalisation of pre-trial processes, such as police powers and practices, bail and plea bargaining.This course will also supplement existing doctrinal knowledge of criminal law, by introducing students to key areas of criminal law: bail law, police powers, public order offences, drug offences and sentencing, and will also expose students to some emerging areas of criminal law."
[10] "This course introduces students to the sources of law which define general principles of criminal responsibility, and to a selection of substantive criminal offences and criminal defences as well as to criminal procedure.  The substantive offences include assault, sexual assault, murder, manslaughter, and property offences, whilst the criminal defences  include provocation and self-defence. Students will be exposed to common law sources as well as legislation and criminal codes where relevant. Basic legal theories of the criminal law will also be introduced. The lecture program will be supported by problem-solving tutorials aimed at enabling students to give legal advice as to criminal liability and the resolution of procedural problems."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
[11] "The aim of this course is to assist first year law students who have English as a second language to address and overcome any issues or problems they are experiencing with their legal studies as a result of their lack of English language background. The course takes material from subject areas to which students are exposed in their first year of law studies (Foundations of Australian Law, Torts, Lawyers Justice and Ethics and Contracts) and creates activities designed both to help students to develop a cultural context for their legal studies and to acquire the practical legal skills they will need for their future study and practice.  The following is an example of the kinds of issues that are addressed and skills that are practised:"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
[12] NA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
[13] "This course must be taken in the commencing semester of a student's LLB or JD enrolment. Students commencing their legal studies in Semester One are expected to undertake Foundations of Australian Law with LAWS1203 Torts. Students commencing their legal studies in Semester Two are expected to undertake Foundations of Australian Law with LAWS1204 Contracts. This is because the content in the relevant companion course is utilised in various ways in Foundations of Australian Law."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
[14] "The Honours Thesis makes up Part B of the final Honours Examination for students wishing to graduate with an honours degree. For this course a student must complete an honours thesis on a topic of their choice, under the supervision of a member of the academic staff or a person approved by the Course Convenor."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
[15] "The course aims include to:• Encourage, promote and validate student aspirations to promote access to justice and equality before the law specifically in relation to Indigenous people,• Encourage students to critically consider the effect of the law and is delivery of social justice to Indigenous people.The course provides clinical placement at the Aboriginal Legal Service (NSW/ACT) for 10 students each semester. Attendance requirements include an orientation workshop, onsite participation as a pair on one day a week, participation in weekly tutorials (reviewing relevant substantive areas of law and legal and social issues relating to Indigenous legal 'issues', Indigenous 'perspectives' and Indigenous 'knowledge'.) Assessment requirements: onsite assessment, tutorial participation and preparation & presentation of a written project."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
[16] "The course looks at the intersection of Information Technology with law. Five broad subject areas have been identified within which this intersection is explored: from the impact of digital content, through the challenges and opportunities of a vastly more interconnected, perhaps \"borderless\" society. Anyone who was intrigued by the move \"The Social Network\" will be interested in this course."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
[17] "Intellectual property may be thought of as different forms of legal rights over creativity or innovation.  Within Australia, the main forms of intellectual property protected, and the focus of this course, are statutory rights relating to Copyright, Patents, Designs and Trade Marks, as well as rights relating to confidentiality and unfair competition.  Intellectual Property is also a global concern, with complex interrelationships between the different forms of Intellectual Property and the process of reform of those rights.  In doing so, this course will provide opportunities for students to explore key policy themes: the globalisation of trade; the rise of information technology; the scientific revolutions in agricutlture, medicine and biotechnology; the development of personality rights; enrighment of a Creative Commons; and the protection of traditional knowledge and culture.  Intellectual Property is an incredibly dynamic and controversial area of law.  Being able to sift through the commentary and recent developments to gauge their effect is vital.  This course will therefore also attempt to ensure students are equippped to understand and respond to changes in intellectual property and able to contribute to the process of reform."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
[18] "This course aims to provide students with a critical understanding of international human rights law and practice. Topics to be covered include:  historical development of international human rights law;international humanitarian law (the law of armed conflict) and its relationship with the international law of human rights;human rights 'enforcement' mechanisms: the UN Human Rights Council, the human rights treaty bodies and human rights regional mechanisms;the rights of women and the rights of indigenous peoples;threats to rights, particularly counter terrorism measures;application of international human rights law in Australia, including refugee issues; andthe future development of rights, including collective rights and lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex (LGBT) rights.   "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
[19] "The ANU College of Law's internship program offers students an unparalleled opportunity to carry out law-based research projects in a legal professional workplace. The course requires and develops both legal knowledge and a lawyer's approach to problem identification, analysis and recommendations."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
[20] "This course has the primary objective of fostering a general knowledge of international law as it relates to armed conflict. This body of law includes two distinct areas of international law: international law and the use of armed force and international humanitarian law. The course will introduce students to the basic principles and legal concepts relating to the use of armed force and the conduct of warfare. It will also enable students to discuss contemporary legal issues that have arisen in these areas in light of the basic principles and concepts.    "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
[21] "This course is an introduction to dispute resolution focussing upon mediation and civil litigation.  The course will examine dispute resolution within and outside the legal system and will explore litigation via the principles of civil procedure.  The interlocutory steps in civil litigation will be analysed alongside the strategies adopted by lawyers in the conduct of litigation.  The course is structured to meet the requirements for admission as a legal practitioner in the Australian States and Territories but also provides opportunities for critical appraisal of litigation policy and practice."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
[22] "The course aims include to: "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
[23] "This course provides an overview of the law governing personal and real property, emphasising the concepts of possession and title, the fragmentation of proprietary interests, and the various ways in which common law and legislation resolve disputes between competing interests.  The greater part of the course is devoted to the creation, acquisition, attributes and remedies for the protection of interests in real property (land).  The course covers legal and equitable interests in land, the acquisition and transfer of such interests by purchase and adverse possession, priority rules, leases, mortgages, easements, and concurrent ownership.  Particular attention is paid to the Torrens system of registration of title."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
[24] "The course covers aspects of the law of restitution as it has developed in Australia, England and (to a lesser extent) Canada, and considers the inter-relationship between restitution, contract, equity, and other categories of legal obligations."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
[25] "Students enrolled in Bachelor of Laws (Honours) programs from 1 January 2015 have the option to compete for places in Supervised Research Paper.  This course will enable a student to complete, over one semester, a 12 unit course where students write a 13000 word supervised research paper that will take the place of two standard one semester electives in the LLBHons program. Students will organise supervisors according to any supervised allocation process that is required in the semester before the commencement of Supervised Research Paper. "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
[26] "When a person has been harmed by the conduct of another it is the law of torts which determines who has to bear the loss.   This is an important aspect of the civil law (in contrast to criminal law).  Historically, it derived largely from judicial decisions, and hence was largely what we call common law but in more recent times legislation has become increasingly important.  The law of torts protects people against, and compensates them for, unreasonable interferences with a wide range of interests, including their bodily integrity, property, reputation, and financial interests.  It does this through a range of different torts, including trespass, negligence, nuisance and defamation.  In this basic and introductory course we will focus on the use of the torts of trespass and negligence in contexts where people suffer personal injuries.  We will also look at the tort of trespass to land.    "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
[27] "'Universities serve to make students think: to resolve problems by argument supported by evidence; not to be dismayed by complexity, but bold in unravelling it'.  (What are universities for? by Geoffrey Boulton and Colin Lucas).   This course takes up this challenge by offering latter year students from any part of the ANU the opportunity to explore a series of complex issues. The connections between economic, historical, social, legal, scientific, engineering and environmental and moral dimensions of complex problems will be explored.    "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
