 [1] "This is a required seminar course, taught in semester 2 each year,  which is intended for first year Bachelor of Philosophy (PhB) students in the College of Arts and Social Sciences (CASS). ARTS1101 is a pre-requisite for this course. The course will consist of weekly seminars which will be conducted by the course convenor and visiting speakers."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
 [2] "The Advanced Studies courses are taken under the direction of the supervisor, but may involve teaching and learning from a wide variety of sources, including other ANU Colleges/Schools/Centres. In each case, the experience of the student will be oriented towards the development of a research career. Advanced Studies courses can be counted towards a major, with the permission of the discipline concerned and of the PhB Convenor."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
 [3] "The Advanced Studies courses are taken under the direction of the supervisor, but may involve teaching and learning from a wide variety of sources, including other ANU Colleges/Schools/Centres. In each case, the experience of the student will be oriented towards the development of a research career. Advanced Studies courses can be counted towards a major, with the permission of the discipline concerned and of the PhB Convenor."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
 [4] "The Advanced Studies courses are taken under the direction of the supervisor, but may involve teaching and learning from a wide variety of sources, including other ANU Colleges/Schools/Centres. In each case, the experience of the student will be oriented towards the development of a research career. Advanced Studies courses can be counted towards a major, with the permission of the discipline concerned and of the PhB Convenor."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
 [5] "The Advanced Studies courses are taken under the direction of the supervisor, but may involve teaching and learning from a wide variety of sources, including other ANU Colleges/Schools/Centres. In each case, the experience of the student will be oriented towards the development of a research career. Advanced Studies courses can be counted towards a major, with the permission of the discipline concerned and of the PhB Convenor."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
 [6] "In this course students develop and undertake an individual creative project in consultation with academic staff. An innovative approach to the technologies and processes of animation, video or a hybrid of both is encouraged. Focussed experimentation with a range of formal issues, formats, narrative approaches and installation strategies is expected. Critical reflection on contemporary and/or historical precedents is further developed through discussion with staff and peers. Students will develop, complete and either screen or install a substantial and fully resolved work. At this level students will apply appropriate Occupational Health and Safety practices."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
 [7] "This course develops skills in industry standard software packages for animation and video, as well as basic equipment including cameras, recorders, and lights. As well the use of facilities such as and recording studios are introduced. Students will begin a process of personal investigation and critical evaluation, linking concepts and processes through individual responses to set projects. Instruction will be through technical classes and project-based assignments. Occupational health and safety instruction is an integral part of this course."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
 [8] "In this course students explore animation and video in relation to landscape and environment. The course introduces skills and technologies in sound recording, lighting and scripting to enable students to independently develop, in response to set projects, integrated works in animation or video. Independent contextual research will critically engage with contextual and theoretical knowledge and incorporate this into their individual projects. Workplace health and safety instruction is an integral part of this course. This topic-based course alternates over two years (odd and even years). In odd years, the course focuses on drama. Even years will focus on documentary."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
 [9] "In this course students explore animation or video in relation to non-linear and abstract imagery. The course introduces skills and technologies in compositing and projection to enable students to independently develop, in response to set projects, integrated works in animation or video. A studio theory component encourages students to critically engage with contextual and theoretical knowledge and incorporate this into their individual projects. Workplace health and safety instruction is an integral part of this course. This topic-based course alternates over two years (odd and even years). In odd years, the course focuses on light and colour. Even years will investigate form and space."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
[10] "This course provides an insight into the conceptual and visual possibilities of animation. It introduces students to fundamental animation theory, techniques and processes that are explored and developed in the context of a Major Work in Animation. Students will develop a Research and Development portfolio as a pre-production component to the creation of the Major Work. This portfolio is a comprehensive planning document that clarifies the theoretical, conceptual and technical scope of the Major Work. Typical areas of investigation at this level include, but are not restricted to, the following processes: staging, timing, deformation, keyframing, lighting, texturing, modelling and rendering. These processes may be implemented in a 2D computer animation, stop-frame animation or 3D computer animation, as per student preference. Occupational health and safety is approached professionally at this level."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
[11] "The Art History and Curatorship Internship ensures students complete their degree with hands-on practical experience of the curatorial and exhibition process, and a sound knowledge of current museum issues. Accessing the School of Art and Design's Workshop collections, students will work collaboratively to document works of art, and prepare an exhibition which will be held at the end of the semester. Students will be able to examine works of art in depth and learn about their material qualities and the techniques used to create them. Presentations from senior museum professionals will engage students with contemporary museum challenges.  During the semester students will gain experience of exhibition installation at the School of Art Gallery and participate in a collaborative project with School of Art and Design students enabling further insight into the artistic process, and the logistics associated with site-specific installations. Throughout this course, students encounter, observe and learn about the inter-related activities that go into making the experience of visiting art exhibitions both educative and enjoyable."
[12] "This semester long internship with available arts cultural institutions is a prestigious and demanding program, in which the internship convenor places Art History and Curatorship Honours students.  The Internship is designed to provide the student with practical insights into the activities and the workings of an art museum or gallery.  The specific nature of the contact work will depend on the requirements of the art museum specialist supervisor, who may include curators, research program managers, registrars and learning and access programmers. The internship is aimed at providing an opportunity for learning about the field in preparation towards and art museum career."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
[13] "This course will provide a broad introduction to major themes and forms of art and architecture in Southeast Asia, from the prehistoric pottery and bronzes of Thailand through Hindu-Buddhist architecture and sculpture to the art of later coastal commercial empires and the modern and contemporary art of the 20th and 21st centuries. The course will also examine the interplay between art and royal patronage, religious practice and colonial power. "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
[14] "This course will examine how institutions shape the ways that art is produced, received and understood. It will explore issues of cross-cultural exchange in art and design and discuss innovation and change in art and design in relation to modernism, post-modernism, and globalisation. It also considers artists and theorists exploration of ideas relating to status of the artist, cross-cultural aesthetics, decoration and display, the relationship between form and meaning, identity, technology, the body, interactions with the audience, and digital media."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
[15] "This course explores the intimate character of utilitarian objects for the table and home. Students will be introduced to the process of commissioning utilitarian objects by developing skills in identifying, negotiating and delivering singular and serial objects for a client. Wheel throwing and hand building will be the principal means of producing table and home ware. This course alternates over two years (odd and even years). Odd years will focus on commissioning for the table in response to a restaurant brief. Even years will focus on commissioning for the home in response to a private brief.  "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
[16] "This course provides the opportunity to explore the contemporary ceramic object in a way that broadens the practice. Projects will facilitate dialogue that locates ceramics in an expanded field of art and design. A range of applications from utilitarian object design to sculpture/installation will be encouraged. The course will support new skills in hand building, moulding & casting, printed surface treatment, glazing and firing technologies while encouraging imaginative practice in the medium. This course alternates over two years (even and odd years). Even years will explore moulding & casting techniques. Odd years will explore hand building techniques."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
[17] "Students will be introduced to ceramic materials & various hand building techniques.   With an emphasis on using different clay bodies and how they will be explored through referencing both historical & contemporary ceramics.\rA range of techniques exploring surface treatments will be used.  Occupational health and safety instruction is an integral part of this course."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
[18] "Students will be introduced to wheel based skills.  Basic thrown forms will be explored with an emphasis on function. An introduction to surface decoration techniques and glaze application for both under glaze and on-glaze.\rBoth historical & contemporary ceramics will be examined.\rOccupational health and safety instruction is an integral part of this course."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
[19] "This course will offer students an introduction to the relationships between urban development and artistic production. The scope of the course is broad, geographically as well as temporally. The disciplinary approaches utilised are similarly wide, including architectural history, urban design, and political theory in addition to the history of art and cinema."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
[20] "This course deals with aspects of Australian art practice from the 1970s to the present. Where appropriate, examples of international art will be considered to place Australian art within context."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
[21] "This course will build on and further develop a range of skills, competencies and understanding to enable the student to resolve, communicate and produce original creative works.The course is based on an Individual Work Proposal (IWP) and the shaping of this and the creative works will be supported though group sessions across several disciplines as well as tutorials, demonstrations and discussions within each Workshop.In addition to developing a cohesive body of work in a media related to the relevant Workshop, students will develop skills in writing and speaking about their work, and in presenting work in a professional setting. Students will learn how to research and articulate the context of their work, including theoretical, historical and critical frameworks. Workplace health and safety instruction is an integral part of this course and will be handled within each Workshop.Workplace Health and Safety instruction is an integral part of this course and will be handled within each Workshop."                                                                                                                                  
[22] "This course will enable Craft & Design students to develop an in-depth awareness of their studio-based practice in relation to the fields of Craft and Design. The course supports advanced making skills and speculative methods of investigation. It will focus on the resolution of creative works, display solutions and exhibition outcomes. It combines studio-based exploration with critical reflection, and creates a forum for students to work in a collaborative, cross-disciplinary environment as they explore and articulate their ideas. Students will engage with set tasks and self-directed projects as they relate to their own developing practice/media through a series of responses that include drawing, models, presentations, mock up exhibitions and written reflections."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
[23] "This course introduces students to the history and profession of curatorship, and explores the roles of curators across varying collecting environments, with a focus on art collections. Students will become familiar with the main factors for consideration when preparing exhibitions and displays. They will also be introduced to the organisation of museums and the various professions within the museum environment. Topics will include the development of art galleries and museums, especially in the 20th century; the development, management and display of art collections; and approaches to documentation and publication. The course will study issues related to the responsibilities of the curator to the community (accessibility, education, exhibition and public relations) as well as responsibility to the objects (conservation, storage, accessioning and loan policies). There is a focus on Australian institutions and collections at national and regional levels."                                                                                                                                                                            
[24] "This unit explores the impact of the computer age and the information revolution on society generally and on visual arts practitioners in particular. It is divided into two interconnected parts. The first focuses on some of the key debates concerning changing views of the body, space and time. The second part deals with the varied creative uses of the new media, including digital imaging, websites, interactive CD-ROMS, animation and virtual reality, framing them within broader historical and social contexts. The unit also takes into account some of the ethical issues raised by the advent of cyberspace."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
[25] NA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
[26] "With a focus on drawing the human form, this course will introduce students to a range of skills and conceptual issues relevant to all visual and design arts disciplines and provides a foundation for future specialised work. Weekly projects will introduce students to the application of two-dimensional representation, dealing with issues such as the human form, the dynamics of colour, design, composition, proportion and pictorial space."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
[27] "This course extends fundamental knowledge of introductory woodworking skills introducing a range of methods to bend timber to create individual curved elements. Across all topics, a range of methods for creating curves from solid sections and laminating are surveyed, as well as techniques for joinery in curved work. The range of demonstrated methods depends on the topic, and alternates between solid timber methods using steam and green wood, and repurposing approaches including salvage and upholstering methods. Students will work both during and outside of class to create a series of speculative and resolved objects. The course is taught by a combination of readings, lectures, discussions, demonstrations, and supervised practice that exposes students to a combination of technology, theory, history, and design and making processes. Workplace health and safety instruction is an integral part of this course."                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
[28] "This course builds upon fundamental knowledge of solid timber design and construction to incorporate structures, surfaces and allowance for wood movement into larger furniture pieces that feature an elevated surface. The course is taught by a combination of readings, lectures, discussions, demonstrations, and supervised practice that exposes students to a combination of technology, theory, history, and design and making processes.  Topics covered include observation/inventory of known functions and uses of surface, design ideation, scale drawings, timber selection, machine processing and joinery, and further hand tool techniques.  Students will work both during and outside of class to design and make several samples or a small project followed by one major furniture project. Occupational health and safety instruction is an integral part of this course."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
[29] "This course draws upon developing intermediate to advanced furniture design skills to investigate the support of the human body in the near environment. Topics covered include observations regarding humans seeking bodily support from objects and the environment (when, where and why we perch, lean, sit, lounge, lie down), exploring objects that interface with the body to dictate behaviour or present emotional/narrative content, creative ideation, ergonomics, scale drawings, mock-ups, approaches to scaffolding intersecting parts in free space, and the use of jigs for supporting curves.  Students will work both during and outside of class to design and make a series of works related to the physical support of the human body. The course is taught by a combination of readings, lectures, discussions, demonstrations, and supervised practice that exposes students to a combination of technology, theory, history, and design and making processes.  Workplace health and safety instruction is an integral part of this course."                                                                                                                
[30] "This course focuses on the integration of concept and processes in hot shop based projects. Demonstrations and course assignments introduce advanced hot glass techniques, while self-directed projects support individual approaches to developing innovative methodologies that incorporate hot glass working. Demonstrations, lectures, class discussions and critiques expand students' knowledge of hot glass applications in historical and contemporary practices in the fields of craft, design and visual arts. Workplace health and safety (WHS) instruction is integrated throughout the syllabus."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
[31] "This course introduces kiln forming processes and cold finishing techniques in glass for creative visual outcomes. Course projects introduce thematic ideas interwoven with technical processes. Projects are aimed at developing student's ability to work the material as well as reflect and develop concepts into their working method. The course is designed to accommodate learning for students with different levels of experience. Lectures and group discussions assist students to locate their experimental methods within the broader field of craft, design and visual arts practice.This is a topic-based course that alternates over two years (odd and even years). In odd years the class will introduce pâte de verre (paste of glass) techniques as well as slumping and cold working of glass. In even years this class will focus on deep and layered kiln forming techniques and cold working of glass.Workplace health and safety (WHS) instruction is integrated throughout the syllabus. "                                                                                                                                                              
[32] "This course introduces processes that extend the fundamental knowledge of glass blowing, kiln forming and cold working established in the previous semester, and encourages original exploration of theme-based projects. Through technical courses, students further develop their skills and awareness of the medium while developing individual responses to set tasks. Integrated studio theory lectures and group discussions extend students' awareness of historical and contemporary practice in the field of studio glass. Occupational health and safety instruction is integrated throughout the syllabus."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
[33] NA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
[34] "Gold & Silversmithing 1 introduces students to the basic skills, techniques and processes of metalworking and through a range of set exercises students are instructed in the use of basic hand tools. Occupational health and safety instruction is an integral part of this course. The program introduces the student to artistic practice and processes in the field through a studio theory segment."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
[35] "In Gold & Silversmithing 2, extends students introduction to the basic skills, techniques and processes of metalworking and through a further range of set exercises. Occupational health and safety instruction is an integral part of this course. The program continues the introduction of the student to artistic practice and processes in the field through a studio theory segment."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
[36] NA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
[37] "This course is designed for students who wish to blend related areas of creative studio production across visual art. Participants will work in a cross-disciplinary approach whilst learning in-depth, studio focused techniques. This is a topic-based course, with a menu of disciplinary pairings. Students will bring their own ideas to each area and the course will provide an environment where participants can develop studio skills whilst also developing critical reflection and contextual awareness within each area of creative expression. Workplace health and safety (WHS) instruction is integrated throughout the syllabus."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
[38] "This course provides a foundation for future specialised work relevant to visual arts disciplines.  Weekly projects are designed to introduce students to a range of skills and conceptual issues relating to image and object making. The application of two-dimensional and three-dimensional representation and issues such as the dynamics of colour, design, composition and pictorial space will be explored."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
[39] "Students can produce an extended research paper as an elective course or as an Art Theory subject provided that they have demonstrated the requisite writing and research skills and can show that their research topic is relevant to their Workshop concerns. ANU School of Art students on exchange may take this subject in fulfilment of an Art Theory course where the partner institution does not offer a satisfactory equivalent."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
[40] "This course introduces students to strategies for presenting art in public places. Public art covers a range of approaches from projection and installation to sculptures and interventions that can be site-specific, ephemeral, temporary or permanent. By studying how artists have used public space to establish the physical, sensory, and aesthetic frameworks for making art, students will develop a hypothetical public work of art. Students will use a range of design, drawing and model-making approaches and basic hand tools to produce two small projects and a final resolved project. Students will explore ways to present ideas that are relevant to their practice and develop ways to approach a commissioning body or design brief. Students will have the opportunity to engage with experts during the course. Students will keep visual and technical diaries and studio theory aims to develop critical and evaluative skills to interpret and understand art within a contemporary and historical context. Workplace health and safety (WHS) instruction is an integral part of this course."                                                         
[41] "This course continues the introduction to the basic skills, techniques and processes of painting developing further the student's understanding of the principles and conventions of composition and pictorial space. Projects (My Space, The Vanitas, The Broken Mirror and Consumed by Desire) foster a deeper appreciation of the technical and conceptual history of painting with opportunities for individual interpretation and expression.  Studio theory involves lectures and student presentations."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
[42] "A project-based painting course leading students through basic principles and techniques of acrylic and water-based painting via a series of themes: painting objects, approaches to landscape and the natural world, the interior space and built environment and the human figure. This course is designed for beginners or those seeking guided basic skill-building. Occupational health and safety instruction is an integral part of this course."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
[43] "In this course each student consolidates their individual creative project, refining their painting skills and focused exploration of methods and processes appropriate to their objectives. Individual work develops in response to discussion with staff and peers, emphasising creative, critical and reflective thinking and the skills of pictorial analysis and interpretation. Drawing continues both as an adjunct to painting and as a creative form in itself. Student presentations foster each student's ability to articulate a contextual and critical framework for their developing practice. Occupational health and safety instruction is an integral part of this course."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
[44] "This course introduces students to basic skills, techniques and processes of oil and acrylic painting. Studio projects focus on the observation and handling of tonal values, and colour systems and their application in the composition of paintings. Basic principles and concepts of representational and abstract painting are introduced and students are encouraged to learn from historical and contemporary examples. The projects involve working from the life model, landscape, still life, and imagination, with the focus on the colour and physical qualities of paint. Studio theory is delivered as a series of lectures."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
[45] "In this course each student develops an individual creative project and is encouraged to build painting skills and explore methods and processes appropriate to their chosen theme. Individual work develops over the semester in response to discussion with staff and peers, emphasising creative, critical and reflective thinking and the skills of pictorial analysis and interpretation. Drawing continues both as an adjunct to painting and as a creative form in itself. Student presentations foster each student's ability to articulate a contextual framework for their developing practice. Occupational health and safety instruction is an integral part of this course."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
[46] "This studio-based course explores the extensive range of materials, tools, mediums and techniques used by contemporary painters. Students will enhance and extend their practice by experimenting with new materials and considering the ways in which the material qualities of their painting contributes to the meaning or effect of the work. A range of techniques will be demonstrated by artists, technicians and representatives from paint manufacturers. Occupational health and safety instruction is an integral part of this course."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
[47] "This course involves an exploration of the ways photography, film and digital visual culture have influenced approaches to painting technically, formally and conceptually since the invention of photography in the nineteenth century. This studio course is supported by lectures, seminars and discussion focused on the wide range of ways in which the mediation of visual experience by these technologies has been explored in painting.  Higher-level skills, concepts, techniques, processes are developed in this process. Occupational health and safety instruction is an integral part of this course."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
[48] "In this course students further extend their studio, laboratory or field based practice by producing independent creative projects in additional professional and creative modes such as public art, industrial placements, group collaboration, community art, relational projects, institutional engagement, performance, interactive spaces, and so on. They learn to enhance the conceptual and technical underpinnings of their creative work and develop additional themes and methods by undertaking individual projects in relevant professional modes. Students will gain independent professional skills which they will apply directly to enlarging their own practice. They will be able to position their creative work and practices in relation to the breadth of contemporary practices in photography and media arts."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
[49] "This course introduces students to the conceptual and visual possibilities of photography. Students will be required to participate in technical programs and demonstrations aimed at developing an understanding and proficiency in the use of basic photographic and/or computer-based techniques and processes."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
[50] "This course is structured around projects designed to extend both a range of skills and technologies coupled with conceptual and thematic topics. Students engage in a process of investigation through individual responses to various set projects. Students must complete a technical program in colour and digital photography."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
[51] "This course presents an introduction to photography syntax through a rigorous studio theory component. Students will also conduct an independent experimental process project, as well as work on a collaborative project that responds to a professional environment. Workplace health and safety instruction is an integral part of this course."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
[52] "Students develop and undertake an individual project in consultation with academic staff. An innovative approach to the materials and processes of photomedia is encouraged. Experimentation with a range of formal issues, formats and installation strategies is expected. Experimental studio research informed by contemporary and/or historical precedents develops over the semester. Critical reflection is further developed through discussion with staff and peers. Students will develop, complete and exhibit a substantial body of work. At this level students will apply appropriate Occupational Health and Safety practices."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
[53] "This course is structured around projects designed to introduce a range of skills and technologies coupled with conceptual and thematic aspects. The course teaches studio lighting, digital photography, inkjet printing, and critical thinking. Students engage in a process of investigation through individual responses to various topics, and undertake self-directed conceptual research. Workplace health and safety instruction is an integral part of this course"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
[54] "This Course is an introduction to basic skills, techniques and processes associated with Relief Printing, Stencilling and Monotype.  Conceptual, historical and contextual foundations of Relief Printing will be presented. Instruction is through weekly studio projects."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
[55] "In this Course students extend their knowledge of intaglio and relief printing.  They have the opportunity to explore individual areas of interest through the development of individual projects. Critical thinking and creative problem solving are encouraged. Studio theory contextualizes student study within the broader arts context. Occupational health and safety instruction is an integral part of this course. "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
[56] "This Course introduces traditional approaches to producing artist's books with a balance of book design theory, practical binding experience and self-directed project work. Students produce a range of simple 'book models' to demonstrate their understanding of course material."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
[57] "This course is designed to introduce students to a range of photographic strategies and digital fabrication methods.  Contemporary conceptual and thematic contexts are addressed. Occupation Health and Safety instruction is included."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
[58] NA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
[59] "This course is designed to introduce students to a range of skills and technologies including drypoint, mezzotint, aquatint, softground and hardground etching.  A range of conceptual and thematic aspects are addressed."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
[60] "This course provides a context for students to refine their skills with the aim of creating a sophisticated synthesis of technique, concept and form and a body of work for final assessment and graduate exhibition. Critical thinking and creative problem solving are applied to individual projects which develop over the semester in response to critical discussion with staff and peers. Studio theory fosters each student's ability to present a contextual framework for their practice. Occupational health and safety instruction is an integral part of this course."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
[61] "This course presents key aspects of life drawing including observation and analysis of form, anatomical study, and composition. Students will explore a range of drawing materials and develop observational and technical skills. Conceptual and thematic issues are addressed and the program is structured around four topics designed to introduce a range of skills and processes. Workplace health and safety (WHS) instruction is an integral part of the course.This is a topic-based course which rotates over four semesters. Each semester focuses on one of the following  topics: Narrative & Character, Light & Space, Mark & Structure or Tone & Line."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
[62] "This course is designed to introduce students to the skills and technology of lithographic printing. A range of conceptual and thematic aspects are addressed. Occupation Health and Safety instruction is included. "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
[63] "In this course students will develop an individual research project in response to the drawing problems presented weekly.  Understanding of contemporary drawing practices will be extended through this independent research and a series of student presentations. Occupational health and safety instruction is an integral part of this course. "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
[64] "This course provides instruction in basic and advanced screen printing techniques including autographic and photographic processes. Students have the opportunity to explore areas of interest through the development of individual projects. Experimentation with materials, scale and creative problem solving are encouraged. Workplace health and safety (WHS) instruction is an integral part of the course.This is a topic-based course which rotates over four semesters. Each semester focuses on one of the following  topics: Autographic to Photographic, Text & Image, Idea to Image or Street to Gallery."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
[65] "This course introduces students to the principles and practice of using text in their visual art practice. A variety of practical techniques are explored, conceptual issues are addressed. "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
[66] "This course usually takes the form of an internship that must be negotiated with the course convenor, and attendance at weekly tutorials throughout the semester. Enrolment in this course is subject to the approval of the course convenor and an agreed internship placement, negotiated between student, convenor and host organisation."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
[67] "This course continues training in research principles and methods as they relate to practice-led research.  Research writing modes and methods, studio investigative processes and methodologies, critical thinking and analysis are all extended. Students refine skills relevant to individual research projects and present a research portfolio to their peers and to staff in an Honours Seminar, explaining their choice of materials and methods, and situating their project in the wider field."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
[68] "Students build on existing skills, techniques and processes of sculptural construction and fabrication. Students develop an individual project to further explore materiality, sculptural language and spatial properties. Final works will be supported by extensive experimentation, and visual and technical diaries. Students use Studio Theory to develop critical awareness and evaluative skills for interpreting and understanding constructed sculpture within a contemporary and historical context. Workplace Health and Safety (WHS) instruction is an integral part of this course."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
[69] "This course introduces students to the processes of developing a cast bronze from a prior approved object such as wax or an object that can be burnt out. Students will gain contemporary and historical knowledge of casting and reproducing art objects/components through practical and theoretical course models. Consideration will be given to finishes and surfaces relevant to conceptual intent. Students will keep visual and technical diaries and studio theory aims to develop critical and evaluative skills additionally occupational health and safety instruction is an integral part of the course."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
[70] "Constructed Form and Space is an exciting theme-based program that introduces students to essential skills, techniques and processes of three-dimensional form and space. Students will be given dynamic group instruction into the use of hand and power tools to construct sculpture from steel and wood. Through experimentation students explore many possibilities of working with these materials. Students will keep visual and technical diaries while Studio Theory aims to develop critical awareness and evaluative skills to interpret and understand artworks within a contemporary and historical context. Workplace Health and Safety (WHS) instruction is an integral part of this course."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
[71] "This course scaffolds the student experience to develop resolved artworks towards exhibition accompanied by a range of experimentation and research around personally determined themes or ideas. Students will apply a range of technical and conceptual skills applicable to Learning Outcomes and Assessment Criteria as well as demonstrate an awareness of OH&S procedures. Students work independently and make contact with staff during scheduled class time. Students will keep visual and technical diaries and studio theory aims to develop critical and evaluative skills to interpret and understand artworks within a contemporary context. Occupational health and safety instruction is an integral part of this course."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
[72] "Material Integration and Context refers to sculpture that combines various traditionally distinct media within a single work. Modernism opened up possibilities for a more expansive palette for sculptors beyond conventions of single media approaches to making and since that time many artists use multiple materials (mixed media) or interchange materials within work. Students will be introduced to advanced use of tools and equipment and focus on sophisticated material and conceptual integrations. Students will keep visual and technical diaries and studio theory aims to develop critical and evaluative skills to interpret and understand artworks within a contemporary context. Occupational health and safety instruction is integral to the course. "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
[73] "This course introduces students to conventions of modelling from life. While there is a strong fashion for casting directly from life, being able to capably model an observed world is still one of the primary activities of a sculptor. Like drawing it enables the sculptor to work in simple and immediate ways that rely on developing hand skills and astute observation. Students observe from life and will focus on proportions of the figure before considering strategies for abstraction and the implications of precision or distortion to carry meaning. Students are introduced to waste mould techniques and will keep visual and technical diaries. Studio theory aims to further develop critical and evaluative skills to interpret and understand artworks within a contemporary and historical context."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
[74] "This course introduces students to soft sculpture through pattern making and armature and utilizes processes including sewing, knitting, crochet, simple construction and skinning. Students will respond sculpturally to ideas that transform and subvert the natural character of objects through space, scale, function, meaning and materiality. This unit will develop time management skills and expand on knowledge of composition and structure in 3D space. Students will keep visual and technical diaries and studio theory aims to develop critical and evaluative skills to interpret and understand artworks within a contemporary art context. Workplace Health and Safety instruction is an integral part of the course."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
[75] "This course introduces students to concepts of space and place through time-based making, including installation and performance. Students can draw from personal experience and skills to explore time and place as cultural constructs. Ideas of permanence and transition will be investigated through drawing, mapping, site interventions and chance operations. Students will keep visual and technical diaries and studio theory will assist in the development of critical and evaluative skills. Workplace Health and Safety (WHS) is an integral part of this course."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
[76] "The aim of this course is to explore constructed methods of textiles as mediums for contemporary visual art. Skills, techniques and processes of fibre and mixed media construction are developed and extended through individual projects. The conceptual underpinning of the area is introduced through discussion of historical and contemporary examples. Students will also learn safe working practices and develop an understanding of relevant Workplace Health & Safety procedures to fulfill course requirements."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
[77] "This course engages students in the process of planning, designing and developing textile design products for a market or customer. The course will be presented as an extended studio project working towards the development of a prototype/sampling, support materials and finished product/s. This will be supported by activities such as short lectures/talks by designer/makers, visits to craft and design organisations, exhibitions, retail outlets and other relevant resources. Students will research and develop knowledge of textiles design practice in Australia, as well as experience in working on design projects with public outcomes. Students will also learn safe working practices and develop an understanding of relevant Workplace Health & Saftey procedures to fulfill course requirements."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
[78] "The aim of this course is to develop technical and conceptual skills and understandings relating to a range of screen-printing processes and to explore the use of pattern systems in surface design/image making techniques. Students will develop skills and knowledge relating to creating repeat motifs and working with pattern systems, preparing artwork, mixing, applying and heat setting pigment-based print pastes, repeat registration methods prints, and the use of computer software in artwork creation, and use these as a means for the creative expression of ideas through both class and individual projects."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
[79] "This course provides an insight into the conceptual and visual possibilities of video. It introduces students to fundamental video theory, techniques and processes that are explored and developed in the context of a creative work in video. Students will develop a research and development portfolio as a pre-production component to the creation of the creative Work. This portfolio is a comprehensive planning document that clarifies the theoretical, conceptual and technical scope of the creative work. Typical areas of investigation at this level include, but are not restricted to, storyboarding, pre-production, lighting, editing, and installation. Workplace health and safety is approached professionally."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
[80] NA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
[81] "The course consists of several projects, each up to three weeks long, in which students explore and apply a range of skills and conceptual issues relevant to all visual and design arts disciplines. It provides a forum to develop more specialised work. Students focus on the development of two-dimensional and three-dimensional representation, dealing with issues such as the human form, the dynamics of colour, design, composition and pictorial space."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
