 [1] "This course provides an opportunity for ANU students to undertake the semester-long Australian Consortium for In Country Indonesian Studies (ACICIS) International Relations Program (IRP), which is taught by one of Indonesia's foremost IR Departments, located at Parahyangan Catholic University (UNPAR) in Bandung, West Java. Taught in English, the IRP provides students with an understanding of international relations at the regional and global levels, as seen from an Indonesian perspective, as well as a unique opportunity for non-Indonesian speakers to experience in-country study at an Indonesian university.Students will be able to select from a range of courses, on subjects that include comparative politics, diplomacy, foreign policy, strategic studies and international relations.ANU will provide students with a pre-departure briefing, online academic community building while in-country and a debriefing session on return to Canberra. Students participating in this course will receive funding support through the ANU College of Asia and the Pacific Engage Asia Travel Guarantee."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
 [2] "The Bachelor of Philosophy (Honours) or PhB is a unique and innovative research-focused degree for intellectually ambitious students who want to study at the highest level. Every student receives intensive individual attention and is supported by a mentor. "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
 [3] "The Bachelor of Philosophy (Honours) or PhB is a unique and innovative research-focused degree for intellectually ambitious students who want to study at the highest level. Every student receives intensive individual attention and is supported by a mentor. "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
 [4] "The Bachelor of Philosophy (Honours) or PhB is a unique and innovative research-focused degree for intellectually ambitious students who want to study at the highest level. Every student receives intensive individual attention and is supported by a mentor. "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
 [5] "This course introduces students to the most urgent issues in India today, looking at the remarkable impact of technology on Indian culture and society, from infrastructure to media and digital. It uses the anthropological lens to bring technology alive, as it is encountered in everyday life by people and institutions. The course begins with an examination of key institutions in India: its social system and cultural practices. It draws on the history and ethnography of South Asia, and the major concepts that framed the discipline of anthropology, as inseparable from the colonialism in Asia. The first part of the course will  primarily focus on the foundations of Indian society, its social, cultural and political make up, before moving to main part of the course which focuses on technology."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
 [6] "This course aims to break down modern stereotypes of Asia and the Pacific, and in doing so, to spark your curiosity about this fascinating and dynamic region. The course offers a feel for the way individuals and communities live their lives and find different ways to navigate the currents, aspirations, and crises that have shaped Asia and the Pacific. We will explore key themes, such as the organization of life in politics, families, and language; the effect of poverty and riches; the importance of race, ethnicity and gender; and the power of belief, creativity and performance. The course will introduce you to many different ways of thinking about these themes, such as those found in political science, history, anthropology, archaeology, gender studies, economics, cultural studies, linguistics and other disciplines. Experts from across the ANU will raise big questions and case studies in lectures, while tutorials will help you hone your skills of critical thinking and effective communication.This course is one of two required foundational courses for the Bachelor of Asian Studies degree. It is also highly suitable for students from other programs who would like to learn the basics of understanding the Asia-Pacific region, and assists them in gaining what is sometimes called \"Asia literacy,\" a valuable attribute in any career in the 21st century. "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
 [7] "This course provides students with the conceptual and analytical tools they need to develop a deeper understanding of politics in contemporary Asia. Through the framework of comparative politics, it will take on several major themes including democratization, identity politics, corruption, and development. In ordinary language, comparisons are often implicit, and arguments are based on weak evidence or poor logic. In this course, students will master not just facts and figures, but a sophisticated approach to analysis that can be used in the study of politics not just of countries in Asia but around the world. The twin thrusts of this course will be learning how to evaluate key concepts in political science (e.g. democracy), and learning how to draw valid causal inferences from comparative political analysis. Students will thus develop the skills to critically evaluate causal claims made in academic, policy, and journalistic writing. The course will be structured by first introducing students to key theoretical and comparative works on selected themes and then applying the approaches comparatively across and within countries in Asia. At the end of the course, students will have a  greater understanding of political events in Asia and have better understood why it matters for us to think about the region comparatively. "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
 [8] "This course gives students the opportunity to undertake an internship relating to their language, discipline, or regional studies major in Asia and the Pacific. The course can be taken as a 6-12 unit variable, depending on the length and workload within the internship. Participants will work with an academic supervisor at the University to identify learning outcomes as well as assessment requirements for their internship under the overall direction of the course convenor. The course will offer ongoing opportunities involving a competitive application and selection process each year, as well as one-off opportunities. All ongoing opportunities within this course will be outlined in the Other Information section."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
 [9] "While many area studies courses have taken the nation-state as the initial unit of analysis and inquiry, this course shifts to look at margins and borders in order to understand the broader (sub) and (supra)state historic, economic, cultural, and political processes throughout the region of Mainland Southeast Asia. In so doing, this course is divided into two major parts: first, we will examine transnational historic processes which are themselves transgressive of state boundaries, and second, we will look at the ways in which borders themselves are mobilized as part of the state's assertion of sovereignty over geography, however incomplete this might be. In addition to assigned readings and two short essays, students will complete an independent research paper on a topic of their own choosing. "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
[10] "The remarkable economic emergence of Asia in recent decades has transformed many impoverished and largely agriculturally based societies into the most dynamic region of the contemporary world. Asia's burgeoning aspirational middle classes, rapid urbanisation, the expansion of participatory democracy and the shift from command economies to de-regulated markets have had profound effects on people's everyday lives and the diverse cultural practices that have long shaped local livelihoods and community expectations. This course offers an introduction into anthropological approaches to the study of culture, modernity and globalisation in Asia. Relevant themes that have attracted anthropological interest include changing traditions and popular culture, adaptive custom and cosmopolitanism, migration and citizenship, identity politics and social movements as well as distinctive and emergent forms of governance in both collective and self-cultivating forms of expression. Drawing on a rich corpus of social theory and ethnographic research from anthropologists past and present, the course will provide students with conceptual and analytical tools to appreciate adaptive cultural practices in comparative terms, to review and appreciate the key anthropological debates and influential works in the study of modernity, and to introduce students to ethnographic approaches for researching and writing on modernity and contemporary ethnographies of global connection."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
[11] "The course is aimed at students from non-economics background who are interested in the economic and socio-political developments of Asia.This course aims to equip students with the necessary economics to understand how the Asian region has grown to become the economic engine of the 21st century and contemporary economic issues of key countries in the region.  The course pays close attention to human development, demographic trends, and poverty and inequality issues and their relation to economic growth.  The course covers topics such as concepts and measurements of economic growth and development, international dimensions of national development, data sources, trends and patterns of economic performance of key Asian economies from a comparative perspective within the global context, and Australia's evolving economic relations with the region. It will also assess policy reforms, structural changes and growth and equity records of China, India, Taiwan, Korea, and the countries in Southeast Asia.  The course will provide students with the analytical skills to understand key economic developments in and prospects for the Asia-Pacific region."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
[12] "A rapidly-changing media landscape is opening up new digital frontiers for academics to get their research out to key audiences, including policymakers. As the reach and impact of conventional and traditional media declines due to digital disruption, new media is rapidly evolving. In the academic space, reaching key audiences means engaging with them in the many places that they now get their news, views and analysis. ANU is a pioneer and leader in online academic blogs - which have become a key platform to achieve this."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
[13] "This is a regional course for students interested in China. It focuses on key social and cultural topics essential to understanding both traditional society and its influence modern and contemporary China. The course is structured around such themes as conceptions of time and space, the written and spoken word, the past and its records, traditional thought and belief, society, government and bureaucracy, cultural pursuits and literary products, inventions and technical advances, or Western interlocutors. The course intends to provide students with in-depth knowledge about core aspects of traditional Chinese culture necessary for any serious occupation with present day China and Chinese communities all over the world."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
[14] "A large body of scholarship now addresses a range of questions about social relatedness in China: What does kinship consist of in China and how is it changing?  How have patrilineal kinship imaginaries shaped the place of women in Chinese families?  What is the relationship of love and practicality in romantic relationships?  How are relationships formed outside of the family in business and politics and how do these types of relationships draw on the form and content of kin relations?  How have urbanization and new communication technologies shaped practices of relationship formation?  China is an important reference point for the study of social relationships both because of scholarly debates about the uniqueness of the practices used to form social relationships there and because Chinese society is changing so rapidly. This course will introduce sociological and anthropological methods and analytics for the study of social relationships while examining the cultural forms of relatedness in Chinese social worlds.  The place of kinship imaginaries in everyday ethics and social practice will be emphasized."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
[15] "This course investigates gender and culture as forms of everyday power in Asia and the Pacific. It introduces key theories and approaches from gender and cultural studies as they shape an understanding of these regions. One strand of this course will consider how our ideas of male, female, and transgender translate in Asian and Pacific contexts. We will explore such possible topics as the relation between feminisms, imperialisms and nationalisms, contemporary configurations of gender, inequality and development, and current debates about gendered violence, human rights, sex work, same-sex sexualities and gender crossing. The second strand of our course will turn to creative traditions and popular culture to investigate the imaginative and political work of cultural production. Possible topics include the links between culture and political power, culture in the age of capitalism, and the influence of globalisation. Through analytical, practice-based and creative assessments, students will gain crucial tools to understand the politics of everyday life in Asia and the Pacific. "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
[16] "Global Semester is a highly flexible course designed for students to undertake a range of studies at an ANU exchange partner for up to six months and count it towards the completion of ANU majors, minors or electives. Students can nominate to undertake disciplinary studies in English, as well as language studies or disciplinary studies in their target language.Global Semester is a variable unit course, so it can accommodate a breakdown of disciplinary or language studies to count towards Asia Pacific Studies majors, minors or electives, or it can accommodate partial credit if students are nominating to split their semester exchange program across two degrees.Students can apply to undertake Global Semester at any ANU exchange partner throughout the world. However, students undertaking a semester of exchange at an ANU exchange partner in Asia may wish to enrol in the Semester in Asia course. A full list of ANU exchange partners can be found at: http://students.anu.edu.au/think/global.phpAs part of the application process, students will be asked to outline how the proposed study at the ANU exchange partner will count towards the majors, minors and/or electives in their ANU degree(s). "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
[17] "This course examines the place of empire in shaping the history of Asia. It asks what makes empires distinct, how they were constructed and held together, how they operated in theory and practice, and why they disintegrated or transitioned into other forms. It takes a broad historical approach to empire that includes native Asian polities, the rise of European colonialism in the region, and the legacies of empire in postcolonial Asia. It examines the political, economic and ideological drivers of empire and resistance, as well as the impact of empire on the lives of the ruled and the rulers."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
[18] "This module introduces the history of China from 1800 to the present day. This period marked some of the  greatest triumphs and tragedies of China's long history: from the glories of the Qing empire to the degradation of famine, internal dissent and foreign occupation. The course pays close attention to the People's Republic of China, which began as a vast socialist experiment, and later emerged as one of the great capitalist powers.   It closes by asking how China's historical experience might help us to understand the challenges facing the country today."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
[19] "This course will trace the emergence of the international order in Southeast Asia. It will examine the different types of polity that have been established in the region, and how they defined relations with their neighbours and with the more distant civilizations of China, India and the Muslim world. The course will examine the series of transformations in Southeast Asia's 'international' system which European colonial powers brought about, and will consider Southeast Asia's influence on the emergence of the global international relations system. Particular attention will be given to the dynamic of decolonization - to the transformation of political identities and the assumptions about state identity and international relations which shaped the present configuration of the region. The course will conclude with a consideration of the making of the post-colonial state system in Southeast Asia, including the creation of the ASEAN regional architecture and attempts to build a regional security community."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
[20] "This course deals with central issues in contemporary Indonesia, from the malls of Jakarta to the rice fields of Bali, from the mosques of Aceh to the mountainous villages of Papua. This course emphasises the dynamics of social relations in specific cultural and historical contexts of the Indonesian and Malay archipelago, and current issues in the light of recent technological and societal change. The unifying focus of the course is on 'everyday life' of Indonesians, with specific references  to culture, media, anthropology, and environment. This allows students to study not only about the facts and figures of Indonesia today, also 'how' modern Indonesia is being debated and constructed, and how it has changed over time. This course will look at the dynamic changes, such as urbanisation, digitalisation, climate change, decentralisation, cosmopolitanism and much more. This course is central to any student's understanding of the  contemporary social and cultural analyses of life in Indonesia, with particular attention paid to its role in the Malay world."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
[21] "This course provides students with an opportunity to undertake an internship relating to their political, strategic or international relations studies in Asia Pacific Affairs. The course can be taken as a 6 to 24 unit variable, depending on the length and workload within the internship. Participants will work with an academic supervisor at ANU to identify learning outcomes as well as assessment requirements for their internship under the overall direction of the course convenor. The course will offer ongoing opportunities involving a competitive application and selection process each year, as well as one-off opportunities. All ongoing opportunities within this course will be outlined in the Other Information section."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
[22] "Asian politics is diverse and rapidly changing.  Many different types of political system can be found in Asia, including communist regimes, constitutional monarchies, democracies and military-based authoritarian governments.  Moreover, seemingly entrenched systems can be overturned, as witnessed in Indonesian's transition to democracy or Thailand's return to authoritarianism.  The study of Asian politics not only gives insights into recent phenomena in the world's most rapidly growing region, but also provides a setting for understanding and relating political theory to real world developments.  This course has two main purposes.  First, it will introduce students to major concepts and theories within political science and secondly will use examples from within Asia to illustrate different political science categories and approaches.  During the course, scholars of the politics of South Asia, Northeast Asia and Southeast Asia, as well as of transnational and strategic relations within Asia, will discuss particular themes within political science and relate these to their region or topic of specialization.  In this way, students will emerge with a broad knowledge of both politics as a discipline and political developments within Asia."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
[23] "Literary and Cultural Discourse in Modern Japan will introduce students to seminal texts (in English translation) that defined literary and cultural discourse from the Meiji period to present-day Japan. Specifically, the course has three central aims:1. To help students to attain a strong degree of familiarity with key Japanese literary texts and to understand how they relate to their various literary, cultural, political and historical contexts. Through this it is hoped that students will not only gain a deeper understanding of specific texts and writers but will also better understand the range of issues and competing and contradictory narratives that shape modern Japanese culture.2. To help students, through reading and discussion, to develop their understanding of critical theory and its practical application in textual analysis.3. To help students develop and refine their research, analytical and critical writing skills, culminating in a research essay drawing on primary and secondary sources and compliant with relevant academic conventions. This research project will be broken into a number of subcomponents to be completed at various stages throughout the semester."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
[24] "Through historical examples from Vietnam, Burma, Thailand, Laos, and Cambodia, this course will emphasise the study of mainland Southeast Asia in a comparative framework, with particular attention to political culture, the production of knowledge, concepts of 'civilisation', and emerging civil societies in the twentieth century."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
[25] "Violent conflicts over natural resources are an enduring feature of social and political life at different scales and levels of organisation. The inter-state and geopolitical dimensions of conflicts over resources such as oil and water loom large in the popular imaginary. However, resource conflicts in the global South are predominantly fought internally, within the boundaries of the nation-state. Indeed, according to the United Nations, at least 40 percent of internal conflicts globally are related to natural resources. It is these sorts of conflicts that are the focus of this course.A striking conundrum lies at the heart of the inquiry: rather than  contributing to peace and prosperity, empirical research demonstrates that natural resource wealth increases the likelihood that a country will experience internal armed conflict. How and why is this the case? What about the role of resource scarcity as driver of violent conflict in developing-country contexts? What sort of policy responses and interventions are available? How might natural resource wealth contribute to peace rather than to conflict? What is the role of political and economic contestation in these struggles over land and natural resources?The course will be structured around a series of case studies drawn from Southeast Asia and the Pacific Islands. A political ecology framework will be applied to the analysis of how land and different types of resource complexes  - including mining, oil and gas, forestry, and oil palm - can be implicated in violent conflict. Alongside these case studies, students will undertake their own analysis of a natural resource conflict in which they will be attentive to the role of different actors - especially the state, communities and corporations - and to questions of scale, power and identity.The course will have a very strong research-led approach to teaching and learning. In addition to core expertise housed in SSGM, it draws upon expertise from other parts of the Coral Bell School and the Crawford School. In addition to the involvement of some of these scholars in class room teaching, the assessment for the course will enable students to engage with them in innovative ways."
[26] "This course presents students with an in-depth understanding of the theory and practice of conflict management and resolution. Through detailed analysis of case studies of both successful and failed peace processes in the Pacific and Asia, students will become acquainted with the major practical and conceptual challenges to achieving sustainable peace in intrastate conflicts. The course will draw on cases such as Bougainville, Solomon Islands, Aceh, East Timor and Mindanao. Drawing on insights from a range of disciplines and from the experiences of practitioners, students will learn about the challenges presented by various approaches to resolving entrenched and protracted conflicts. This course is part of the new undergraduate program in peace, conflict and war."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
[27] "An individual course of readings on a topic identified by the student in consultation with the coordinator. The focus will be on English language material but students with particular Asian language skills will be encouraged to use them where possible. Fortnightly meetings to discuss material covered will be on a one-to-one basis."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
[28] "The course is for students who have completed ASIA2083 and have demonstrated an advanced level of proficiency in one of the major Southeast or South Asian languages taught in the School (Hindi, Indonesian, Thai, Vietnamese or Sanskrit). Enrolled students conduct an independent research project under the supervision of a member of academic staff, on a common theme that may change from semester to semester. Students will arrange to meet with their supervisor on a regular basis to create a project in their target language. Enrolment in this course is contingent on the availability of appropriate supervisors. "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
[29] "Northeast Asia, with a population of some 1.7 billion, and containing the world's second and third largest economies, is a region of enormous political, economic and cultural significance. It is also currently in the midst of major transformations. Developments in the region, including the rise of China and ongoing efforts to resolve the crisis created by the last remaining corner of the Cold War - the division of the Korean Peninsula - have global implications. Meanwhile, the countries of the region are gradually moving towards the creation of closer regional integration. In order to understand these developments, and their profound implications for Australia and the rest of the world, we need to understand the historical, cultural and social context in which they occur. This course offers a new look at Northeast Asia. Key themes addressed include: the legacies of the Asia-Pacific and Korean Wars; the Cold War architecture of Northeast Asia; migration and cultural interactions between the countries of the regions in the Cold War and post-Cold War eras; the Korean Peninsula and Taiwan questions and their implications for relations between the countries of the region; and contemporary political and social issues in the region. This course will help students to develop their research skills, through finding and interpreting historical sources, current data and visual material on Northeast Asia. "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
[30] "This course treats the development of Japanese culture from earliest times to the early 19th century in the context of the major political and social forces that moulded the country's history. The course covers major periods and cultural epochs of Japanese history, but particular attention will be paid to samurai culture and systems of social control from the 12th century onwards. The themes to be covered include the formation and the evolving conceptions of Japan's identity, politics, economic development, social trends, and religion, as well as Japan's interaction with Asian and European civilizations. The course aims to provide students with a basic factual knowledge in Japanese history and to assist them in understanding modern Japanese society in its historical context to develop the ability to assess and think critically about historical issues."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
[31] "Semester in Asia is a highly flexible course designed for students to undertake a range of studies at an ANU exchange partner for up to six months and count it towards the completion of ANU majors, minors or electives. Students can nominate to undertake disciplinary studies in English, as well as language studies or disciplinary studies in their target language.Semester in Asia is a variable unit course, so it can accommodate a breakdown of disciplinary or language studies to count towards Asia Pacific Studies majors, minors or electives, or it can accommodate partial credit if students are nominating to split their semester exchange program across two degrees.Students can apply to undertake Semester in Asia at any ANU exchange partner in Asia. Students who wish to undertake a semester of exchange outside the Asia region are encouraged to apply for the Global Semester course. A full list of ANU exchange partners can be found at: http://students.anu.edu.au/think/global.phpAs part of the application process, students will be asked to outline how the proposed study at the ANU exchange partner will count towards the majors, minors and/or electives in their ANU degree(s). "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
[32] "Understanding the contemporary Chinese world must be predicated on its extraordinary complexity. The China that is growing in confidence and power, and with which Australia's present and future are inextricably bound, is a product of powerful social and cultural forces that demand explanation but resist analysis from a single point of view."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
[33] "This course will introduce students to the myriad visions of South Asia that have been expressed through historical, social, economic, political, religious and cultural movements and debates over the past three centuries. It will focus on the crucial question: what is South Asia? In the multiplicity of dynamic and often ephemeral answers, the course will offer glimpses of the many Indias, Pakistans, Sri Lankas, and so on that reside in peoples imaginations."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
[34] " This course will introduce students to the history of Korea from 1800 to the present with an emphasis on modernity, gender, war and capitalism. Using primary sources, literary works, documentary, and film, we will explore such topics as: the genealogy of modern Korean nationalism through peasant and aristocratic rebellions in the 19th century; the tangled relationship between Korea and Japan during the period of Japanese colonial rule (19120-1945); how North Korea became communist; the scars of the Korean War (1950-53); counter-cultural movements in 1970s and 80s South Korea; and contemporary challenges facing South and North Korea. This course will give students a thorough grounding in Korean history, and introduce them to major interpretative currents in the study of Korean history."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
[35] "Contemporary India finds itself at the intersection of the trajectories of a number of widely varying notions of truth, falsity, authenticity and illegitimacy. The variation in these trajectoriesin their cultural origins and in their contentcan make their crossings unpredictable and explosive and often unintelligible. This course will explore with students the claims and negotiations that are fundamental to some of the critical debates in Indian history and politics over the past two centuries. In particular it will aim to alert students to the possibility that underlying these contentious events, ideas and processes are contending claims to truth and authenticity.The course will focus on a set of truth claims that constitute the interface of cultural interactions within India and between Indian cultures and the rest of the world: stereotypes, stories, histories, myths, corruption and claims to authenticity and ethnicity. Such a study of India, by facilitating the study of cultural interactions through the prism of different configurations of truth and falsity, rather than the prism of power, will also encourage students to think more broadly and deeply about the interplay between notions of truth."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
[36] "India is one of the most dynamic and complex countries in the world. As the world's largest democracy, and as home to many of the globe's poorest inhabitants, India commands attention. This course embraces the complexities and contradictions of India through a deep engagement with current debates on the key issues, including: How has democracy survived in India? What explains the rise to power of the Hindu nationalist BJP? Why has India fallen behind China economically? What are the causes of the Maoist rebellion in the Indian countryside? Understanding the politics, economics, and society of India demands a combination of factual knowledge, as well as strong analytical and interpretive abilities. Taking comparative politics as the basic analytical framework, the course will draw on range of source materials, including recently published works in political science, history, economics, social anthropology, and journalism to frame and understand political developments in India. "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
[37] "This course is an introduction to the concepts of literature in a number of Asian traditions. The materials range from ancient to contemporary texts, which will all be presented in accessible English translation. The course will focus on attitudes to literature and explore the variety of texts in Asian literatures, requiring students to consider the relevance of European genre categories: novel, poem, epic etc. in relation to these texts. Thus the main aim is to problematise the relationship between text and genre and issues of translation (across language, history and culture). We will consider how particular texts work and how best they can be categorized in terms of genre. The course will explore some aspects of the social and literary environments that have shaped the production and interpretation of literary texts in both historical and contemporary Asian cultures, and consider the significance of a writer's nationality, cultural background, gender, social class and historical situation in the shaping of a work of literature."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
[38] "Year in Asia is the ANU College of Asia and the Pacific's flagship program for in-country study, providing students with an opportunity to immerse themselves in the language and culture of their chosen country for up to 12 months. Students study a combination of language and disciplinary studies at a partner institution, and complete a final research project in the target language on return to ANU.This course is the first course in a two-semester sequence  in-country study program in the region appropriate to their language/contextual major. Country, language, and institutional environments differ from region to region, and within countries. The type of language training and disciplinary study offered will vary as students are matched with institutions appropriate to their backgrounds, needs, abilities and interests.  This course, along with its second semester counterpart, will provide a coherent structure for these different experiences."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
