 [1] "This course examines in detail all aspects of the biology of the immune system, and uses this foundation to study the application of immunobiology to human disease. Topics will include the innate immune system, antigen processing and presentation, HLA, B and T lymphocytes, and how the immune system provides a coordinated response to viral, bacterial and helminthic pathogens. This biology will then be applied to the understanding of the pathogenesis of human autoimmunity, allergy, immunodeficiency and cancer, how such diseases can be diagnosed in the diagnostic pathology laboratory, and the theoretical basis of new treatment strategies. Finally, the course will cover research methods including animal models that prepare for future research into human immunological disease, aided by close liaison with, and presentations by, leaders in immunological research at ANU. Practical demonstrations in flow cytometry will be complemented by small group tutorials examining specific topics in immunobiology and analysis of the latest publications in the field."                                                                                                                                                                                                          
 [2] "The course will describe how ecological factors play an important role in animal health.  For example the gain and loss of strains from a host, within host population dynamics, e.g. competition, and among host dynamics, e.g. transmission.  Transmission will be examined in the light of many recent studies looking at how social networks are important determinants of disease transmission in a population.  Many of these questions will be addressed looking at individual bacterial species and a variety of hosts, both human and animal."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
 [3] "Bioinformatics is a rapidly growing scientific discipline at the interface of genomics and computer science that has two distinct but overlapping aspects: the development of computer infrastructure (eg. algorithm, programs, databases) and their use to analyse a wide variety of biological data. Among these data, genes, transcripts and epigenetic variants play a central role. Their rapid and large-scale acquisition in today's genomics, transcriptomics, proteomics and other -omics projects poses the major challenge of modern biology. The large-scale and genome-wide analysis of these data is often referred to as 'functional genomics' and relies on advances in bioinformatics and high throughput technologies such as 3rd generation sequencing.This course provides an introduction to the key methods and technologies of bioinformatics and functional genomics, the fastest growing fields of biology and perhaps science. As computer literacy is central, the course will include a short section on computer programming using the Python programming language. Topics covered will include sequence comparison techniques, genome databases searches, population and comparative genomics, sequencing techniques, genome evolution."                                          
 [4] "This course provides an introduction to the molecular and cellular aspects of modern biology. It introduces the molecules that play a key role in biology, including DNA, proteins, and carbohydrates, then goes on to describe their functions in the cell. Cell function studies will be supported by studies on cell structure.  Cell specialisation will be introduced in terms of multicellular organisms and interacting cell networks. Topics to be covered include: the molecules of life; membranes and the uptake of nutrients; proteins, enzymes and metabolism; cellular structure and function; cell specialisation; the role of molecules and cells in the control of cell division and biotechnology applications. Examples will be drawn from both plants and animals."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
 [5] "The principal component of the Honours course involves a research project conducted under supervision of a research scientist. In addition, students are expected write a Grant Proposal on the research topic, a progress report, present seminars on their research work and attend various workshops and Divisional seminars. . The major item of assessment is the thesis. The Honours course runs from early February to early November or from mid July to mid May. In addition to meeting the entry requirements defined by the College, students must have the agreement of a member of the academic staff to supervise their project, and the agreement of the convener. Academic staff from the Research School of Biology, John Curtin School of Medical Research, CSIRO and Canberra Hospital may be supervisors or co-supervisors. Students should discuss their intention to undertake an Honours project with appropriate staff and the Honours Convener at least several months before the proposed starting date. Note that several organisations award honours scholarships in September-December for the following year."                                                                                                                                                                    
 [6] "This course is specially tailored for students attracted to, or wondering about research. Students are immersed in a real research environment and in the practice of research. They are integrated in a research team and get direct experience in core components of research activities, from posing a question, defining hypotheses to address it, and the appropriate approaches to examine these hypotheses; data analysis and rigorous presentation, interpretation of results, and most importantly their critical assessment and discussion in the context of the current body of knowledge. Students are experiencing first-hand the joys and tribulations of probing the unknown, the drive, curiosity, discipline, and perseverance this requires.  Interested students are encouraged to contact the course convener who will assist you in finding a potential supervisor for the project."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
 [7] "This course is specially tailored for students attracted to, or wondering about research. Students are immersed in a real research environment and in the practice of research. They are integrated in a research team and get direct experience in core components of research activities, from posing a question, defining hypotheses to address it, and the appropriate approaches to examine these hypotheses; data analysis and rigorous presentation, interpretation of results, and most importantly their critical assessment and discussion in the context of the current body of knowledge. Students are experiencing first-hand the joys and tribulations of probing the unknown, the drive, curiosity, discipline, and perseverance this requires."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
 [8] "This course examines the ethical and societal impacts of new applications in biology. Technologies examined include: genetically modified organisms; cloning of humans and other animals; genetic screening and gene therapy; reproductive technologies; organ and stem cell transplantation, neurotechnology and the convergence of humans and machines to repair or enhance human function. Broad issues affecting individual and societal decisions to accept or reject technologies will be discussed, such as risk/benefit assessments and regulation of new technologies. Students will be presented with many diverse perspectives through readings, discussions and seminars from professionals from both within and outside the university."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
 [9] "In the face of global climate change, a growing human population and the threat of global pandemics and bioterrorism, pests and diseases are an increasingly important threat to human, animal and plant biosecurity, and ultimately global food security. This course examines the biology of major threat organisms including feral animals, weeds, parasites and pathogenic micro-organisms, with a focus on endemic and exotic threats to Australian health and agriculture. The social, economic and environmental impact of pests and diseases, and the regulatory, biological and biotechnological measures used to control pests and diseases will also be examined."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
[10] "This course examines the biology of cells, the basic units of life on Earth. The course addresses several central themes in cellular biology, including: the origin and diversity of cells, cellular division and replication, the transport of proteins and other macromolecules within cells, the compartmentalisation of cellular metabolism, the functions of organelles in protists, animals and plants, the cellular basis of differentiation, and signalling between and within cells. Students will be exposed to the latest breakthroughs in the field, and learn key cellular biology techniques in practical components of the course."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
[11] "This course deals with the basic physiology of cells, with a particular emphasis on human disease. It will cover the following topics: cell and membrane structure and function; membrane channels and transporters and their roles in nutrient uptake, ion homeostasis, cell signalling and drug resistance; the electrical properties of membranes; the cellular and molecular basis of the excitability of the nervous system; excitation-contraction coupling in muscle; signal transduction; the molecular structure and function of membrane transport proteins; the molecular basis of the action of a number of drugs; diseases involving transporter and channel defects."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
[12] "Physiology is the study of how plants and animals operate at all levels from the cell to organs and organ systems, and how all of these work together to maintain normal function. Plant and animal systems have evolved by very different pathways, but there are striking parallels as well as differences in how hormones and other biomolecules interact in day-to-day life, and how they govern metabolic processes and reproduction. This course explores  physiological processes from a comparative perspective, examining how physiological innovation has underpinned the evolution of complexity in both in plants and animals."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
[13] "Welcome to the fields of botany and zoology. This course offers a comprehensive introduction to the biodiversity of plants, animals and fungi. Students are given a solid grounding in the vast diversity of multicellular organisms and their evolutionary lineages. Biol1009 is an essential prerequisite for students wishing to pursue plant and/or animal sciences. It is also an excellent, engaging, \"free standing\" course for those studying in other areas of science, or in non-science degrees. The lecture component focuses on the fundamentals of plant and animal structure and the evolution of complexity. It also addresses current research issues such as responses of plant species and populations to climate change. Each practical class is designed to provide our students with an opportunity for hands-on learning about key features of structure and function in a range of animal and plant taxa."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
[14] "The spectacular plant and animal biodiversity on Earth has been generated by the basic phenomena of mutation and natural selection that in turn feed in to the speciation process. This course explores the principles and processes that underpin evolution, using examples drawn from plants and animals. Topics covered in this course will include: phylogenetics and the history of life, natural selection and adaptation, evolutionary processes including mutation and genetic drift, molecular evolution, speciation, coevolution and macroevolution.  This course will be taught interactively through lectures, workshops and tutorials. Students will examine the milestone research studies that identified the basic principles and processes in evolutionary change, and the most recent experimental and genetic tools to test hypotheses concerning the evolution of life."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
[15] "This course deals with macroevolution, macroecology and biogeography - patterns of biodiversity at large spatial and temporal scales, and the processes that have generated these patterns. Surprisingly, there are many fundamental questions about biodiversity that remain poorly answered. For example, why are there so many species in the tropics? Did the extinction of dinosaurs pave the way for the rise of mammals? What causes one species to diverge into two? Equally surprisingly to many people, it is possible to test “big-picture” questions like these using a set of basic logical principles and analytical tools, and an ever-expanding database of molecular, geographic and ecological information on the world's species. The aim of this course is not to present you with facts to memorize, but to equip you with the skills to ask interesting questions about biodiversity, and develop creative and elegant ways to answer them. The course is taught through lectures, workshops and two computer workshops which give you the chance to learn and apply some of the key analytical tools used in large-scale biodiversity analysis."                                                                                                                                         
[16] "This course will explore the ways biologists generate and assess evidence applying a variety of statistical techniques. The use of biological models from bacteria, plants and animals will be discussed, with their advantages and limitations. The value of different experimental approaches including hypothesis-driven research and large scale data generation, such as genome sequencing projects will be considered.  Quantitative reasoning and analysis will be introduced with examples of its application to biological problems.  Students will participate in practical exercises to develop and test hypotheses and then, as a group, compare and contrast the application of statistical approaches to interpret the data."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
[17] "This course focuses on the general principles of microbiology and includes the following topics: bacterial cell structure and function; genetic systems of bacteria, bacteriophages and plasmids; microbial growth and metabolism; energy and nutrient harvesting; microorganisms and the environment; control of microorganisms; introduction to viruses; food and industrial microbiology."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
[18] "This course will extend on the Genetics of Human Disease I course, focussing on more advanced topics of human genetics and disease. We will examine the genetics of non-Mendelian disorders, including those exhibiting sex-linked, mitochondrial, transgenerational and complex modes of inheritance. These will be studied at both conceptual and disease-specific levels, with additional focus on the use of genetics to elucidate disease mechanism and develop therapies. We will also present the latest advances and representative examples pertaining to other advanced genetic concepts such as genome evolution, gene-environment interactions, and higher order genome organisation and regulation. We will cover topics including:"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
[19] "What is cancer, and why is it a leading cause of death in many countries like Australia?  This course covers the Hallmarks of Cancer as described by Hanahan and Weinberg in their seminal papers of 2000 and 2011.  Normal cell biology and genetics and how it goes wrong in cancer will be presented, with principles being illustrated through clinically relevant examples. Classes will cover genetic, epigenetic, molecular biology, cell biology, cell signalling, immune, clinical and treatment aspects of cancer. Practicals / tutorials will also cover technologies and models used for studying cancer."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
[20] "Marine ecosystems play a crucial role in the health and function of our planet - from tiny plankton that shape global patterns of carbon and sulphur cycling, to massive coral reefs that support enormous biodiversity and feed millions of people. Once thought to be indestructible and inexhaustible, we now know that such marine communities are fragile and easily disturbed. In this course we will use both old and new concepts in marine ecology to explore how healthy marine ecosystems can be conserved in the face of human harvesting, habitat modification and climate change. Taking a problem-based approach, this course will examine key issues facing marine ecosystems (e.g., climate change, overfishing, biodiversity loss, ecosystem phase shifts) through lectures, hands-on tutorials and assessments. Students will gain first-hand experience in the quantitative methods used to describe and assess approaches to marine conservation, as well as skills in science communication via novel assessment items such as the role-playing press conference and graphical abstract design."                                                                                                                                                                                          
[21] "BIOL3190 is offered in coursework mode in second semester.  This course is designed to provide an opportunity for students undertaking the Bachelor of Medical Science to learn about applications of the medical sciences in the work place. Various guest speakers, who will be professionals in different areas of medical science and/or research, will discuss their work, career, ethics and legal liability. Visits to work places such as different departments of the Canberra Hospital, research schools and pathology laboratories will be organised. Students will also work in small groups to design and run an interview with a medical professional or researcher."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
[22] "This course provides an introduction to the principles and practice of recombinant DNA technology. It has a focus on how biological processes can be exploited and manipulated for practical purposes, rather than how they operate in nature. The course also introduces some of the main problem solving skills used routinely in molecular biology. A wide range of methods and applications will be discussed including:  polymerase chain reaction (PCR), DNA cloning, DNA sequencing, gene libraries, blotting techniques, expression of recombinant proteins, gene mapping, transgenic animals, and gene therapy."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
[23] "A broad and multi-disciplinary approach to the complex and dynamic relationships between parasites and their hosts. This course offers an overview of the biological and epidemiological bases of important parasitic diseases and an understanding of the impact of parasitic diseases on endemic communities. It covers many disciplines while studying the life-cycles, ecology, physiology, biochemistry, immunology, pathology and molecular biology of the covered parasites. Both protozoan parasites (unicellular parasites) and parasitic helminths (parasitic worms) will be considered with emphasis on the most important parasites of humans. Studies include aspects of the host immune response to parasites; chronicity of infection and its significance; host pathology; evasion of host responses by parasites; diagnosis, vaccination; chemotherapy and drug resistance; genetic resistance to parasitic infection; relevance of parasitic infections to society. In-depth study of malaria and schistosomiasis, with focus on the pathology, immunology and chemotherapy of these most important human parasitic infections will be of particular importance."                                                                                                                             
[24] "This course is based on an integrative approach to how global climate change is affecting vegetation with a specific focus on the rise of dieback in plant communities. There is much controversy in the field regarding causes of dieback; however, various factors are implicated including carbon starvation, hydraulic failure, vulnerability to biotic stress and phenology and how these drivers interact with elevated atmospheric levels of carbon dioxide. You will investigate the causes of dieback through four modules driven by key researchers and through exposure to disciplinary controversies around the significance, role, and interplay of these factors on plant health, adaptation and survival. The course has a weekend field trip to Kioloa to identify and classify plants based on systematics and to consider evidence of vegetation changes arising from climate change and environmental stressors. There are several pre-field trip practical which will include living and herbarium specimens for first-hand examples of the plant groups and their characteristics. This course will build students' understanding of plant function in relation to global climate change, field skills in identifying plants and their research analysis and proposal formulation skills. "
