 [1] "Accounting analytics develops new insights and understanding of financial and non-financial performance by continuous iterative examination of large data sets pertaining to past financial and non-financial information and events. This course aims to equip students with skills to analyse accounting data to address accounting-related problems. Students are expected to obtain an understanding of different types of data analytics methods, and how to apply these methods to analyse accounting-related problems. "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
 [2] "This course is designed for Honours students to undertake independent research in accounting. Students will conduct research in their chosen topic under the supervision of academic staff with relevant research interest. Students will be required to  identify research problems, review and synthesize relevant literature, develop an appropriate research design, collect and analyse data (where relevant), and present their findings effectively in a written thesis."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
 [3] "The course extends the material in Business Reporting and Analysis. It provides detailed understanding of the technical aspects and concepts used in producing financial and management accounting reports. This includes cost assignment methods, the application of accounting principles and double-entry accounting systems for recording and reporting financial transactions."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
 [4] "The objective of this course is to provide the student with the opportunity to obtain a sound knowledge of normative, positive and critical theories of accounting. The course begins by examining the nature of theories and alternative forms of logic. The conceptual framework and key contemporary and historical accounting issues are examined, highlighting the role of theory in understanding current accounting standards, accounting practice and the use of accounting information by the myriad stakeholders in reporting entities. Throughout the course examples of the relationship between theories of accounting and decisions facing real people (accountants and financial statement users) are highlighted."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
 [5] NA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
 [6] "Over the last fifteen years management accounting issues of organisational cost management and management control systems, have been recognised as increasingly important. This course seeks to: (a) develop the student's ability to apply management accounting techniques to cost management practices; (b) examine the forms and behavioural consequences of the implementation of management accounting systems in organisations; (c) develop an appreciation of the benefits and limitations of management accounting systems in organisational contexts; (d) enhance the student's ability to assimilate and communicate management accounting ideas and information; and (e) promote a critical interpretation of the use of management information and control systems."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
 [7] "This course is about financial reporting, but not how to report or account for activities. Two key features of the syllabus are the explicit linkage to the research literature and the emphasis on empirical evidence. The adopted approach is largely based on the economics of accounting and finance. The course also aims to introduce students to the theoretical and practical skills required to conduct their own empirical research."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
 [8] "This unit is primarily focused on the external audit of corporate financial statements while also covering other assurance services, professional ethics, and legal liabilities.  The lectures presented are structured to correspond with auditing process in theory and practice, and inevitably integrate Australian and International Auditing Standards."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
 [9] "The course focuses on the nature and scope of business reporting and the need for financial and non-financial information for business decision-making. It provides students with fundamental financial management knowledge in the contemporary business environment. The course commences with an introduction to the use of business reports and the financial reporting regulatory environment. The concepts of primary financial reports and specific reporting issues are then discussed, with a focus on the preparation and analysis of financial statements from the perspectives of business report users. The course proceeds with discussions on the basic financial decision tools, the use of past and future-oriented information and how the knowledge is applied to managerial decision-making, including planning, control and investment opportunities."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
[10] "This course covers the characteristics of the Australian accounting environment and its financial reporting requirements for companies, and expands on accounting for non-current assets, accounting for intangible assets, accounting for liabilities and owners' equity, accounting for a range of financial accounting issues (e.g., leases and income tax), and, most importantly, provides a comprehensive coverage of consolidation issues and equity investments."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
[11] NA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
[12] "This course introduces students to the roles of corporations in society and their accountability, accounting and reporting issues in the context of sustainability and social justice. It examines issues in Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), emphasising accountability for, and reporting of, the social and environmental effects of a corporation's economic actions to stakeholders. This extends the corporation's accountability beyond financial disclosures to shareholders and is predicated on the assumption that corporations have social responsibilities that are much broader than generating shareholder wealth."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
[13] "The objective of this course is to enhance the ability of class members to interact effectively with people from cultures other than their own, specifically in the context of international business. The course is aimed at significantly improving the ability of practicing managers to be effective global managers. The course is concerned with considering the issues and problems of managing in cross-cultural situations, in particular at the people problems that invariably arise in international business relationships. Failure on the part of managers to understand and deal with the difference in attitudes, values and behaviour of those with whom they interact in business transactions consistently has been shown to be a major source of difficulties. The course will involve marrying theories and concepts from the broad fields of culture and international business and applying them to problems typically confronted by managers involved in international business. The course will draw on the existing knowledge and expertise of the class participants to solve problems relevant to them and their organisations."
[14] "Rapid economic growth in most of Asia during recent decades has seen the emergence of large corporate enterprises which were organised in ways different from companies based in Western countries. This course discusses the evolution of Japanese, Korean and ethnic Chinese conglomerate enterprises and business networks. It introduces students to the particulars of corporate organisation and management of these enterprises, and elaborates the degree to which these help explain the success of Asian companies. Evolution and particulars of Asian business enterprise will be placed in the economic and social context of the countries where these companies originated."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
[15] "This course is a broad survey of the field of international business and provides the foundations for further specialisation in this field. It will begin with a brief overview of international business, focused on the concept of globalisation. The course will then examine the environment for international firms, particularly the political, social economic, technological and other configurations that support cross-border trade and investment. Amongst others, we will look at the role of national policies, cultures and business systems, the evolution of international markets in goods, services and finance, and the supernational mechanisms and infrastructures for trade, investment and finance. The course will then probe international firms: their strategies and organisational design, their entry modes into international enterprise, and their behavioural and control systems."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
[16] "This course requires students to complete a 24 unit honours thesis in international business studies. Students will undertake independent research in international business studies under the guidance of a supervisor. At completion of this thesis course, students will have developed the capacity to perform high-level independent research, and have an in-depth knowledge of their chosen research topic."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
[17] "This course aims to develop an advanced understanding of the international marketing environment, the international marketing mix, and international marketing strategy. Specific topics include the rationale for international marketing; marketing issues related to international economic, financial political, legal, cultural and information technology environments; international marketing research; market selection and entry; product adaptation for international markets, promotion, pricing and distribution in international markets; channel selection and alliances; and strategic issues in international marketing."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
[18] "This course introduces you to the Australian legal system and the law regulating business activities. Particular focus is given to the law of contract. The course also covers the laws relating to particular types of business contracts such as sales of goods and insurance contracts. Aspects of property law and negligence are also covered."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
[19] "This course provides students with an appreciation of management accounting concepts related to the management functions of decision-making, planning and control. The course introduces a range of management accounting tools, including job and process costing, variance analysis, activity based costing and the balanced scorecard. Students are introduced to the application of management accounting tools for pricing, budgetary control, cost allocation and performance evaluation as well as new developments in management accounting knowledge and techniques and how to assess these through cost-benefit analysis."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
[20] "The course introduces students to the principles of tax law in Australia with a focus on income tax. The important provisions of the Income Tax Assessment Acts 1936 and 1997 about the concepts of income, capital gains, and deductions are considered in detail. Other topics include international aspects of income tax, tax treatment of different entities, tax planning and goods and services tax."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
[21] NA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
[22] NA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
[23] NA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
[24] "Special topics are subject to confirmation by the relevant school. Please see the Program Convenors for further information."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
[25] "Special topics are subject to confirmation by the relevant school. Please see the Program Convenors for further information."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
[26] NA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
