[1] "The College of Business and Economics (CBE) Internship Program provides students with an opportunity to gain real-world experience in an organisation through a workplace internship of 4 weeks full-time equivalent. The placement will make a significant contribution to improving students' employability through a well-designed internship project and reinforces the relationships CBE entertains and engages in with industry partners. The internship project has a strong focus on developing students' capabilities in terms of their professionalism, teamwork, communication and problem-solving skills. Each intern will show evidence of competencies and skills acquired through close working relationships and collaboration with professional colleagues, a workplace supervisor and academic advisor. The internship program offers industry collaborators the opportunity to co-create value through students' application of their theoretical knowledge and capabilities developed throughout their programs and get access to ANU talents."
[2] "Work integrated learning is the core component of the CBE Special Industry Project course. The course provides a select group of undergraduate students in CBE with the opportunity to work in a small cross-disciplinary team setting and solve a business problem presented by a live business client. The academic component of the course is comprised of a series of master classes delivered by academic experts and industry professionals. Under the supervision of the course convenor and support of a designated industry mentor, students will apply their theoretical knowledge into practice by working on innovative solutions that address the specified business issue from the live business client, who is a multinational corporation located in Australia or overseas. The CBE Special Industry Project course facilitates undergraduate students' development of professional skills important for their job market readiness."                                                                                                              
[3] NA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
[4] NA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
[5] NA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
[6] "The over-arching goal of this in-country intensive course is to provide students with an exposure to the business environment of the selected country through site visits to corporations, NGOs and government agencies. It will also provide an opportunity to understand the cultural and historical dimensions that shape business practice. This course will also emphasise personal and professional development in key areas such as leadership, management, marketing, entrepreneurship and international business. The course will typically involve a visit of up to 10 days in the selected country. Students will be selected to enrol in the course following a competitive application process."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
