[1] "Over the last 20-30 years the face of chemical synthesis has changed quite dramatically to a realm where many key reactions intimately rely on the presence of a catalyst. Moreover key advances continue to be made in this area particularly with regards to the use of chiral catalysts in the synthesis of enantiomerically pure compounds. This course will primarily focus on the use of catalysts in small molecule synthesis. Approaches may include organo-based, as well as transition metal and enzyme, catalysis and the role of chiral catalysts in asymmetric synthesis. The laboratory component of the course will aim to further develop skills in chemical synthesis and particularly with regard to the use of catalysts."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
[2] "Many applications in modern chemistry and biochemistry depend on the ability to make, change and analyse proteins and enzymes. After completion of the course students will be familiar with all of the steps required for the production of proteins in bacteria and various techniques of analysis. This includes techniques for making, modifying, and analysing proteins.  There is an emphasis on biophysical techniques (SDS-PAGE, light-scattering, CD spectroscopy, ultracentrifugation, mass spectrometry, ITC, fluorescence, surface plasmon resonance), discussing their physical basis in depth. Advanced analysis techniques (X-ray crystallography, NMR, EM, SAXS/SANS) are discussed only superficially.  Introduction to bioinformatics: protein sequence alignment, 3D structure analysis, modelling."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
[3] "This course will assume a knowledge and understanding of the material presented in Chemical Structure and Reactivity 1 and the methods of structural elucidation covered in Structural Elucidation in Chemistry (CHEM2210). The course will continue to develop an integrated approach to chemical education through instruction in theoretical and practical aspects of inorganic and organic chemistry. The organic component of the course will be centred on the important area of carbonyl chemistry and highlight the significance and applications of this area of chemistry. In particular the significance of carbonyl chemistry in biological systems and medicine will be developed. The inorganic chemistry component of the course will provide an introduction to organometallic chemistry from both fundamental (structure and bonding) and applied (reactivity, synthesis , catalysis) perspectives. Topics to be covered will include the wide variety of carbon based ligands, the various processes that allow for their interconversion and the inclusion of such transformations in catalytic processes for the metal mediated synthesis of both fine and bulk chemicals. Laboratory experiments are designed to provide augmentation and/or complementation of the material taught in lectures. Students will be exposed to important techniques in synthetic chemistry and become adept at their implementation whilst further developing their skills in the spectroscopic characterisation of compounds."
[4] "The following syllabus provides a general guide to the topics to be discussed:"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
[5] "A supervisor, who will guide the candidate in the selection of a suitable program of study and who will direct the research project, will be appointed for each honours candidate. The program of study includes a special schedule of lecture courses, details of which will be made available within the School. Candidates will normally be able to select their general field of investigation.Attendance at colloquia held in the School constitutes a part of the program and the candidates will be required to prepare and deliver seminars describing the background to (first seminar) and results from (second seminar) their research project. Candidates must submit a written report (thesis) describing the method and results of their investigation."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
[6] "Chemical biology the manipulation of biological systems through the use of tools that have primarily been developed through synthetic chemistry.  This advanced course focuses on providing an introduction to chemical biology via the study of papers published within the last 5 years in scientific journals. Areas that will be covered will include the design and generation of novel enzymes through incorporation of unnatural amino acids, computation design of new enzymes with specific properties, the use of fluorescent chemicals/proteins in biology, combinatorial chemistry and drug design, and glycobiology - the manipulation of sugars that are recognised by cells/proteins. There is no laboratory component to the course and extensive group-based tutorial sessions will be run in which various series of papers will be discussed."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
[7] "This course is divided into two parts, the first is designed to develop an understanding of the structure and functionality of solid state materials. Topics to be covered include solid state, sol-gel and thin film synthesis, crystal chemistry, crystallography, ceramic processing and the relation between structure and function. The second is designed to develop an understanding of the structure, synthesis and properties of soft materials (i.e. polymers), and will include an overview of the different families of polymers, their structures, physical properties and uses. Also covered will be the various methods of polymer synthesis with an emphasis on how the synthetic methods used affect the resulting physical and chemical polymer properties, and the different methods of polymer characterisation and an examination of the associated physical properties they measure. The properties of some technologically important functional materials will be highlighted throughout this course."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
[8] "This course will introduce students to molecular modeling and computational chemistry methods with the emphasis on molecular-orbital theory. The laboratory sessions provide students with experience in the computational chemistry techniques used to model the structures, properties and chemical reactivity of molecules."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
[9] "A selection of research projects from within the Discipline of Chemistry will be on offer.  Students will undertake their individual project within a research group in the College of Physical Sciences under the supervision of the group leader. This is an Honours Pathway Course.  Completion of particular chemistry C courses may be a requirement  for certain of the projects on offer."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
