 [1] "This course covers a selection of advanced readings in Literary Chinese. Each semester, students study a different type of Literary Chinese text, including historiography, excavated texts, anecdotal literature, legal documents, poetry, and Buddhist Chinese. Students read prescribed texts in class. They receive tuition in the vocabulary, grammar, and syntax specific to each type of text and register of Literary Chinese. Students also discuss the contextual information necessary for appreciation of the texts under study; and practise using a range of Sinological research tools to discover and interpret such information. "                                                                                                                                                                   
 [2] "This is an advanced Standard Modern Chinese language course, designed for students who have successfully completed Advanced Modern Chinese A , or have achieved the equivalence approved to enroll by placement test.The course places special emphasis on reading comprehension of texts on issues concerning contemporary China. It will be taught mainly in Chinese. It relies heavily on students' self-study and pre-class preparation. Students will be required to give oral presentations in Chinese, engage in real-issue debates and conduct real time interviews as part of the course assessment. They will also write a research-based essay in Chinese by utilizing primary sources on an approved self-chosen topic. The lectures will focus on facilitating students' learning and oral development. "
 [3] "This course is a continuation of the work of Cantonese 1. It is designed to train students to acquire speaking and listening comprehension skills to an advanced level. Emphasis will be placed on practical conversations for daily use. Reading and listening may include materials about popular culture in Hong Kong and Guangdong. Comparison with Mandarin will also be part of the lectures. "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
 [4] "This tertiary level Continuing Chinese H Course provide a pathway from secondary to tertiary studies in Chinese language by enhancing and complementing the existing ACT Chinese Continuing language course for Year 11 and 12 secondary students. This course will be delivered at first-year university level with a strong though not exclusive emphasis on reading and writing, which secondary college teachers of Chinese have identified as a need. Given the distinctiveness of the Chinese language and its distance from English, learning Chinese, in particular learning to read and write characters, needs new literacy skills to be developed. The course will emphasize both essential literacy skills and a broader understanding of the role of written language in a contemporary context."        
 [5] "This course guides  students in intensive and extensive Independent level  readings and in analysis and discussion of Chinese texts in a field of specialisation. It is suitable for heritage learners or students who have completed the 'Year in China' course and have an advanced level of proficiency in spoken and written Chinese. The content of the course will cover different aspects of modern Chinese culture and society and will prepare students for independent research in different fields. At the same time, it will improve their skills of reading comprehension, speaking, writing, analysis, and translation.    "                                                                                                                                                                            
 [6] "This course is designed for Independent level Standard Modern Chinese language students as a course in Chinese-English translation. The course is intended to equip students with translation skills and serve as a foundation course for further Chinese-English translation courses. Students will learn how to use the most common on- line tools critically, how to judge and critique the quality of an accomplished translation task, and have some experience in handling translation issues in real life.    "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
 [7] "This course focuses on the analysis and translation of intermediate texts from various periods. Based on the knowledge acquired in Literary Chinese 1, the course attempts to improve the students' proficiency in philological translation with a sample of different types of text. To meet the challenges posed by the selected texts, the course further introduces Sinological reference tools useful for their elucidation."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
 [8] "This course is the further oral component of a one-year  beginners program in Standard  Modern Chinese (Putonghua or Mandarin).    "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
 [9] "This course is the further written component of a one-year  beginners program in Standard Modern Chinese.    "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
[10] "This is an intermediate level Chinese language course, following on from Modern Chinese 3.  This course is designed to cover the remaining essential grammatical points of Standard Modern Chinese language before moving on to a higher-intermediate level which will focus on the written style.  This course will help students to raise students' linguistic competence in reading, writing, listening and speaking in Standard modern Chinese. It aims at laying a solid foundation for more advanced Chinese language studyIn addition to the coverage of the textbook, the course will also utilize other textual and audio / visual materials so that students can learn more about aspects of Chinese culture, history, and society."                                                                        
[11] "This is a third-year Modern Chinese language course, designed for students of Chinese as a foreign language at a high intermediate or beginning advance level. Taking an integrated approach, this course aims at developing students' fluency and accuracy through reading and discussion on topics concerning situation and issues in contemporary China. The course will place a special focus on building reading skills. This course is a continuation of CHIN 3022: Modern Chinese 5 in Semester One."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
