 [1] "This course is concerned with the study of algorithms for solving practical problems efficiently, and the theoretical analysis of their behaviour. There will also be a brief introduction to complexity theory, the formal study of algorithm performance.A large variety of algorithms are candidates for study. These include, but are not limited to, the following: greedy algorithms, dynamic programming, network flow algorithms, algorithms for string matching, parallel algorithms, graph algorithms and approximation algorithms."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
 [2] "Students will conduct a project, under supervision, that will act as a capstone to their studies in Advanced Computing. The activities in the course will normally include some combination of reading, writing,  artefact construction  and presentation, as appropriate to their project's topic.  The learning objectives, project overview and assessment arrangements will be specified at the outset using the Research School of Computer Science form 'Independent Study Contract'."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
 [3] "The course provides student exposure to current professional practice in research and development. It consists of 60 days of work at an approved organization, organized by the student in conjunction with the course convenor. The duration of this must be in a computing research and development and professional context. The course is graded as satisfactory or unsatisfactory."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
 [4] "This course provides the student with project experience to complement the studies of the software development process in the courses COMP2100, and COMP2130, combined with research and development experience in COMP2560. Students work in small groups and participate in all the research and development phases of a project producing an innovative and substantial software system. This includes research planning, experimentation and evaluation phases followed by the development phases (requirements analysis, design, construction, testing and documentation). As well, each group has to address the control of this process by constructing and following a detailed management plan."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
 [5] "Students will conduct an individual research project under the close supervision of one or more academic staff. Projects will, at least in part, require the application of theoretical or experimental research techniques. In particular, students will be expected to conduct and present a survey of the literature relevant to the research topic."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
 [6] "This course explores a selected area relevant to statistical machine learning in depth, and will be taught by an SML staff member of internationally recognised standing and research interest in that area. Based on current SML staffing, this will be one of:"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
 [7] "This course deals with the study of algorithms for solving practical problems, and of the data structures used in algorithm implementations. Detailed analysis of the resource requirements of algorithms will be an important issue.The topics covered will include: mathematical tools, greedy algorithms, dynamic programming, divide-and-conquer, data structures (hash tables, binary search trees, red-black trees, and disjoint sets), basic search techniques (breadth-first search and depth-first search), graph algorithms (topo-logical sort, minimum spanning trees and single-source and all-to-all shortest paths), etc. "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
 [8] "This course will introduce design and coding in the context of New Media Arts and Interaction. Topics covered may include the nature of New Media Art, Interaction with New Media Art, program organisation, control structures, graphics and audio. In terms of the modern art world, the computer is not just another medium, it is a whole other range of media. Students will design and experiment  to construct interactive works of New Media Art. They will learn how to conceptualise, brainstorm, plan and realise an original interactive work of New Media Art. The techniques used by computer professionals to visualise and present data are heavily influenced by techniques invented by artists and vice versa. Students will gain an appreciation of good visual and interactive design."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
 [9] "This course will enable students from computer science and software engineering to develop competencies expected of professionals working in business, government or the broader community. The course coordinator will maintain a list of available internship opportunities for which students can apply. A holistic selection process will be used to select the best applicant for each opportunity. Students can also propose internships, but these will always be established following negotiations between the ANU and potential host organisations, and then offered to students along with other opportunities."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
[10] "The honours program consists of a coursework component and a project component, of equal weight. The coursework component involves courses in advanced aspects of the computing discipline, which in recent years have been drawn from: architecture of parallel systems, artificial intelligence, computational logic, algorithms, object oriented databases, programs for parallel computer systems, formal aspects of software engineering, software engineering project, document technologies and automated reasoning. The project component involves a substantial individual project under detailed academic supervision. A formal thesis is submitted (nominally 10,000 words), and a seminar is presented."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
[11] "The honours program consists of a coursework component and a project component, of equal weight. The coursework component involves courses in advanced aspects of the computing discipline, which in recent years have been drawn from: architecture of parallel systems, artificial intelligence, computational logic, algorithms, object oriented databases, programs for parallel computer systems, formal aspects of software engineering, software engineering project, document technologies and automated reasoning. The project component involves a substantial individual project under detailed academic supervision. A formal thesis is submitted (nominally 10,000 words), and a seminar is presented."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
[12] "This course will prepare you to communicate science across cultural boundaries. It will increase your understanding about issues and effective strategies of communicating science and technology with culturally diverse audiences. You will explore how values, beliefs and expectations differentiate science from other knowledge systems, and examine the Eurocentric privileging of modern science and its communication, which are integral parts of Western culture. In doing so, you will look closely at communities that are alienated from science, with particular reference to current science communication research."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
[13] "Cyber Security Foundations introduces all essential cyber security principles. This includes principles of secure design, secrets minimization, least privilege, isolation, separation and encapsulation. The interplay between failed security principles and vulnerabilities is investigated in detail.The course provides the essential foundations which allow students to continue in a more in-depth cyber security career, yet can also be used a standalone unit to provide a self-contained set of knowledge."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
[14] "Real-world data are commonly messy, distributed, and heterogeneous. This course introduces core concepts of data cleaning, standardisation, and data integration, that are aimed at converting and mapping raw data into other formats that allow more efficient and convenient use and analysis of data. The courses also discusses data quality, management, and storage issues as relevant to data analytics."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
[15] "Defensive Cyber Security operations introduces and exercises a complete range of anomaly / intrusion detection and identification mechanisms. Students will also learn and exercise handling of an existing intrusion which includes forensic operations as well as securing the remaining systems. This is a complete course in cyber defense which enables students on successful completion to operate systems under real-world exposure."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
[16] "Processing of semi-structured documents such as internet pages, RSS feeds and their accompanying news items, and PDF brochures is considered from the perspective of interpreting the content. This course considers the \\document\" and its various genres as a fundamental object for business, government and community. For this, the course covers four broad areas: (A) information retrieval, (B) natural language processing, (C) machine learning for documents, and (D) relevant tools for the Web. Basic tasks here are covered including content collection and extraction, formal and informal natural language processing, information extraction, information retrieval, classification and analysis. Fundamental probabilistic techniques for performing these tasks, and some common software systems will be covered, though no area will be covered in any depth."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
[17] NA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
[18] "This course presents some formal notations that are commonly used for the description of computation and of computing systems, for the specification of software and for mathematically rigorous arguments about program properties.  The following areas of study constitute the backbone of the course. Predicate calculus and natural deduction, inductive definitions of data types as a basis for recursive functions and structural induction, formal language theory (particularly regular expressions, finite state machines and context free grammars), and specification languages."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
[19] "This course will provide an introduction to the field of Human Computer Interaction and will introduce students to behavioural research methods and techniques used in usability testing. The course will give students the essential theoretical background to approaches, methods and techniques followed by practical experience in conducting usability studies for interactive systems."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
[20] "This is an Individual Research Project (IRP) within the Bachelor of Advanced Computing (Research and Development) (Honours) degree. Students do multiple IRPs during their program, with each one specifically designed to provide a strong research focus customised to each student. These give students valuable research experience along with the opportunity to explore different research areas prior to their final Honour's project."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
[21] "Industrial Experience gives the student exposure to current professional practice. It consists of 60 days of work, organised by the student. Of those 60 days, 20 must be in a software engineering context, 20 must be in a professional context, and the remaining 20 may be in any employment.Industrial Experience is usually undertaken outside study periods, and is graded satisfactory or unsatisfactory."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
[22] "Information theory studies the fundamental limits of the representation and transmission of information. This course provides an introduction to information theory, studying fundamental concepts such as probability, information, and entropy and examining their applications in the areas of data compression, coding, communications, pattern recognition and probabilistic inference."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
[23] "This course takes a detailed look at the services provided by, and the internals of, an existing operating system to see how each part is constructed and integrated into the whole. The lectures will also address recent literature describing advances in operating systems. The following topics are addressed: system programming and its facilities (including I/O, signals, job control, interprocess communication, sockets, transport layers, remote operations), system calls and their relation to the system libraries, process management and coordination, implementation of message passing, memory management, interrupt handling, real-time clocks, device-independent input/output, serial-line drivers, network communication, disk drivers, deadlock avoidance, scheduling paradigms, file systems, security."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
[24] "The course is built around an investigation of what programming languages are, and the notion of programs as artefacts. Two key aspects of the study of programming languages are their semantics, and their syntax.We will survey some of the fundamental principles of the semantics and computational behaviour of programs, including the lambda calculus, types and fixed-points. Rigorous proofs of properties of programs, such as are needed for safety-critical software, or for program transformations such as are carried out by optimising compilers, require a formal description of the 'meaning' and behaviour of programs. We will study two of the dominant approaches: denotational semantics and opertional semantics. In each case, standard proof techniques will be developed and applied.The syntax of programming languages is routinely defined by well-understood means, in terms of formal grammars and their relation to certain classes of automata. We will investigate the algorithms underlying standard automata-bsed compiler generators and make practical use of them to construct simle translators."
[25] "This course is the first of three core computer science courses on programming. It introduces students to the field of computer science as a discipline for solving problems through computation and provides the foundation for more advanced courses on programming and software development. Data structures and algorithms, the key concepts at the core of computer science, receive their first treatment in this course. The course addresses both functional and imperative programming paradigms."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
[26] "This course teaches introductory programming within a problem solving framework applicable to the sciences. The course emphasises technical programming, the simulation of scientific systems and the processing of scientific data. There is an emphasis on designing and writing correct code. Testing and debugging are seen as integral to the programming enterprise. Both top-down and object oriented design are taught. There will be an introduction to widely-used computer science algorithms and to machine architecture. The course will be taught using one or more programming languages which are widely applicable to scientific work."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
[27] "Students will conduct a small project, under supervision, that in area of computing of mutual interest to the student and their supervisor. The project will involve applying and increasing the depth of the student's knowledge in some aspect of computing. The activities in the course will normally include some combination of reading, writing, project work and presentation, as appropriate to the topic. The specific learning objectives, project overview and assessment arrangements will be specified at the outset using the Department of Computer Science form 'Independent Study Contract'."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
[28] "This course is an introduction to relational databases and the general skills for designing and using them. The topics include the relational data model, SQL, entity-relationship model, functional dependencies, (de-)normalisation, relational algebra, query processing and optimisation, database transactions and security. To deepen the understanding of relational databases, the current industry development of database systems such as NoSQL databases will be introduced at the end of this course.  "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
[29] "This course continues to build on topics taught in the previous two courses. It focuses on construction of medium scale programs, using design patterns and tools that are used in the software development process. Students will gain further experience with industry standard revision control and integrated development environment (IDE) tools."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
[30] "Real-world software development is a dynamically complex activity involving uncertainty, people, technology and processes interacting within a similarly complex environment of clients, users and other stakeholders as well as evolving technological, physical, social, legal, ethical and other constraints."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
[31] "This course exposes students to professional software engineering practice and leadership through the development of a software system for an industry, government or university based customer, or by engaging with the ACT innovation community and students across the university to create a software-based start-up business.  Students will lead small teams to plan (define, estimate, schedule) and manage an appropriate set of activities to ultimately deliver a software product. The implementation part of the project will include monitoring, measuring, tracking, and managing change."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
[32] "This course provides the student with project experience to complement the studies of the software development process in courses COMP2500, COMP2130, COMP3530 and COMP3120."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
[33] "Students will conduct an individual research project under the close supervision of one or more academic staff. Projects will, at least in part, require the application of theoretical or experimental research techniques. In particular, students will be expected to conduct and present a survey of the literature relevant to the research topic."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
[34] NA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
[35] "This course introduces students to the fundamentals of software development with a substantial group software project at its center. Major foci are data structures, object oriented programming, and an introduction to software engineering. Students will extend their understanding of software productivity tools, using revision control for group work, and be introduced to test-driven development as an integral part of software construction."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
[36] "This course is a variation on Structured Programming (COMP1110). It  covers the same topics in more depth, allowing students to deepen their understanding and experience. Students will use, apply, and deploy structured programming techniques in a diverse range of application domains."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
[37] NA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
[38] "Society relies on many complex systems of interacting technology, people, processes, laws and other elements. Examples of such systems include air transport, telecommunications and energy supply. Systems Engineering is a holistic, multi-disciplinary and well established approach to the engineering of these complex systems. Because software is a critical component of such systems, Software Engineers will often work in Systems Engineering teams. This course prepares students for such roles by covering the following topics:"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
[39] "This course is based on the foundations set by the previous course on computer organisation. It expands particularly into all forms of concurrent programming including aspects of massively parallel programming."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
[40] "This course is available so that senior students can pursue, under supervision, topics that are not covered in the regular curriculum that will significantly increase their knowledge of some aspect of computer science.The activities in the course will be some combination of lectures, reading, writing and project work, as appropriate to the topic. These activities will be specified, for each enrolled student, using a Research School of Computer Science `Independent Study Contract'."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
