 [1] "This course aims to teach students some techniques of behavioural economics, classical economics, and compare the two approaches. It focuses on the principles and basic models of decision-making used by both streams of economists, as well as their consequences."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
 [2] "This course will teach the basics of programming and computational skills for economic analysis and enable the students to take numerical approach to familiar mathematical problems. Students will learn to graphically represent familiar ideas such as supply and demand curves, equilibrium prices and consumer choice. They will explore how these choices and equilibria change with shifts in policy instruments, preferences and technologies. In the process they willlearn to use common computational solution methods, such as root finding and optimization. Students will also learn how to obtain, manipulate and represent data, using tools such as scatterplots and histograms."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
 [3] "This course will teach the basics of programming and computational skills for economic analysis and enable the students to take numerical approach to familiar mathematical problems. Students will learn to graphically represent familiar ideas such as supply and demand curves, equilibrium prices and consumer choice. They will explore how these choices and equilibria change with shifts in policy instruments, preferences and technologies. In the process they will learn to use common computational solution methods, such as root finding and optimization. Students will also learn how to obtain, manipulate and represent data, using tools such as scatterplots and histograms."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
 [4] "There are a variety of reasons for wanting to measure the costs and benefits from policy and other changes in economic activity. Governments want to measure the impact of their policy changes on society as a whole, while private agents focus on the impact they have on their own welfare and the welfare of those they care about. In markets subject to tax and other distortions market prices are not normally reliable measures of the social valuation of goods and services. Thus, they cannot be used to evaluate the social impact of policy and other changes. Instead, we derive shadow prices of goods and services to look through market distortions and measure social valuations. When changes in economic activity are evaluated using these shadow prices they provide measures of the social impact of policy and other changes. This course summarises the information provided by different welfare measures for single consumers and then looks at ways to aggregate them over consumers. In doing so, we examine ways to account for distributional effects in policy evaluation. Tax reform and the optimal provision of public goods are examined as applications of these shadow pricing rules. "
 [5] "There are a variety of reasons for wanting to measure the costs and benefits from policy and other changes in economic activity. Governments want to measure the impact of their policy changes on society as a whole, while private agents focus on the impact they have on their own welfare and the welfare of those they care about. In markets subject to tax and other distortions market prices are not normally reliable measures of the social valuation of goods and services. Thus, they cannot be used to evaluate the social impact of policy and other changes. Instead, we derive shadow prices of goods and services to look through market distortions and measure social valuations. When changes in economic activity are evaluated using these shadow prices they provide measures of the social impact of policy and other changes. This course summarises the information provided by different welfare measures for single consumers and then looks at ways to aggregate them over consumers. In doing so we examine ways to account for distributional effects in policy evaluation. Tax reform and the optimal provision of public goods are examined as applications of these shadow pricing rules."  
 [6] "Why are some countries richer than others? Why have some countries experienced growth miracles while others have experienced stagnation of even growth disasters? Within developing countries, what does it mean to be poor? How to combat poverty? What are the challenges that the poor in developing countries face and what can be done to improve their living standards? This course intends to teach students what we know and what we do not know about these important questions and will focus on teaching students tools in understanding them. The topics covered will include explanations on why countries develop differently, the effect of geography, institutions, foreign aid, corruption and differential savings rates on the large disparities across countries. Within countries we will examine the role of education, health migration and credit markets in poverty alleviation. The course will cover both theory and empirical evidence but focusing mainly on how to conduct empirical analysis in understanding these important economic development issues. "                                                                                                                                    
 [7] "This course will focus on contemporary policy issues in the Australian economy."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
 [8] "This course will focus on contemporary policy issues in the Australian economy. The lectures will be delivered by Professor Gregory and experts within the ANU and by visitors drawn from government departments and other universities. The more important topics are taken from the following policy areas; the labour market, welfare, immigration, education and economic growth."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
 [9] "Economics 3 (H) is a prerequisite for entry into the Economics IV honours programme. It helps determine whether a student is admitted to the programme and helps prepare students for it."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
[10] "Supervised Research"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
[11] "Economics 1(H) includes ECON1102 Macroeconomics 1 with two additional contact hours a week. It is designed for the better performing students who want to extend their exposure to economics beyond that offered in the standard first year courses in microeconomics and macroeconomics. The course will give students a head start on Microeconomics 2 and 3, as well as optional economics units - with topics drawn from public economics, law and economics, game theory, industrial"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
[12] "Economics 2(H) includes ECON2102 Macroeconomics 2 with two additional contact hours a week. It is designed for the better performing students who want to extend their exposure to economics beyond that offered in the standard second year courses in microeconomics and macroeconomics."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
[13] "This course examines the economic principles that determine the allocation of resources through time in market economies. It uses supply and demand relationships to value capital assets (or projects more generally). There is a detailed treatment of the effects of risk and taxes on capital asset prices, and the Modigliani-Miller financial policy irrelevance theorems are derived and examined in detail. The impact of modern contracting theory on our understanding of financial economics will also be discussed."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
[14] "This course examines the economic principles that determine the allocation of resources through time in market economies. It uses supply and demand relationships to value capital assets (or projects more generally). There is a detailed treatment of the effects of risk and taxes on capital asset prices, and the Modigliani-Miller financial policy irrelevance theorems are derived and examined in detail. The impact of modern contracting theory on our understanding of financial economics will also be discussed."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
[15] "This course examines the economic principles that determine the allocation of resources through time in market economies. It uses supply and demand relationships to value capital assets (or projects more generally). There is a detailed treatment of the effects of risk and taxes on capital asset prices, and the Modigliani-Miller financial policy irrelevance theorems are derived and examined in detail. The impact of modern contracting theory on our understanding of financial economics will also be discussed."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
[16] "In many - perhaps most - economic interactions, there is potential for strategic behaviour, a term, “intended to focus on the interdependence of the adversaries' decisions and on their expectations about each other's behaviour” (Schelling, 1960, The Strategy of Conflict).   Recognising and understanding such behaviour is an essential part of any economist's toolkit and this course is designed to enable just such recognition and understanding. Game theory has successfully been applied in a diverse range of fields, such as economics, political science, law, biology and computer science. The aim of this course is to provide an introduction to strategic thinking and analysis through the basic techniques of game theory and to illustrate the range of its applications in economics and business and other areas.  While the level of the course will be introductory, and mathematical prerequisites are minimal, the presentation of the material will rely on precise logical arguments. "                                                                                                                                                                                                      
[17] NA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
[18] NA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
[19] "Size and scope of health sector: Economic explanations for growth in health sector; Distinctive economic characteristics of the commodity ' health care'; Grossman's model of health capital; Determinants of the demand for health care; The demand for health insurance: Health and health care production functions: The interaction between health insurance and technological change in health care: Health manpower; Economic models of hospitals; Managed Care; The pharmaceutical industry; Economic evaluation of health care programs. Throughout the course the emphasis will be on the application of microeconomic analysis to health issues."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
[20] "Industrial Organisation studies the interdependence of market structures, firm's conducts, and market outcomes. We look at how market structures affects firms conduct and market outcomes. In this course, students will be introduced to the theory of the firms, imperfect competition, oligopoly theory, and other strategic behaviours. Some applications on competition policy and regulation will also be introduced if time permits."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
[21] "Industrial Organisation studies the interdependence of market structures, firm's conducts, and market outcomes. We look at how market structures affects firm's conduct and thus market outcomes. In this course, students will be introduced to the theory of the firms, imperfect competition, oligopoly theory, and other strategic behaviours. Some applications on competition policy and regulation will also be introduced if time permits. "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
[22] "Industrial Organisation studies the interdependence of market structures, firm's conducts, and market outcomes. In this course, students will be introduced to the theory of the firms, imperfect competition, oligopoly theory, and other strategic behaviours. Some applications on competition policy and regulation will also be introduced if time permits."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
[23] "Law and Economics applies the concepts and techniques of microeconomics to the law itself, focusing on the common law: the dominant source of legal rules in Australia. The course does not assume any prior legal knowledge, nor does it provide any legal training. The Course employs basic price theory - rational maximization, the law of demand, opportunity costs, and the idea that voluntary exchange allows resources to gravitate toward their highest- valued uses - to predict the consequences of legal rules: how they affect the behaviour of individuals and groups; and uses welfare economics to evaluate legal rules, especially their efficiency effects. Legal issues examined in the course include property rights, tort law, contract law, criminal law, law enforcement and punishment, litigation and settlement, principal-agent liability, and regulation v tort law as ways to control externalities. The emphasis in this course is on “thinking like an economist” to understand legal issues from an economic perspective, with a focus on a clear understanding of the logic and underlying economic intuition rather than just the results. "                                               
[24] "Students undertake the pass course together with extra lectures on more advanced topics and extensions to the pass course. Topics will be drawn from: welfare economics, competition and the core, the hold-out problem, the anti-commons, intellectual property and patents, non-pecuniary losses and the value of life, the last clear chance rule, product liability with monopoly, and more complete models of accidents, optimal contract damages and uncertainty."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
[25] "Law and Economics applies the concepts and techniques of microeconomics to the law itself, focusing on the doctrines, rules and remedies of the common law: the dominant source of legal rules in Australia. The course does not assume any prior legal knowledge, nor does it provide any legal training."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
[26] "This course introduces contemporary theory for examining central questions in macroeconomics: growth, unemployment, inflation, and business cycles."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
[27] "Macroeconomics is concerned with the operation of the economy as a whole, with attention paid to such things as unemployment, inflation, and interest rates, determination of the level of national income, savings and investment, and the exchange rate and the current account of the balance of payments. The course develops a consistent model of the economy to explore the interactions of key macroeconomic markets and variables and to examine the impacts of different kinds of shocks to the economy and the role of government budgetary and monetary policy in influencing the level of economic activity."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
[28] "This course introduces the student to methods and issues in contemporary macroeconomics. A good understanding of the various macroeconomic issues and models is vital for any student of economics, business and finance. A central theme is the inter-relationship between empirical macroeconomic outcomes and theoretical constructs for explaining or understanding these outcomes. These models can also be used to understand and re-invent macroeconomic policies. In this course we also aim to bring the themes in undergraduate macroeconomic studies closer to what is taught in graduate courses, and also closer to how macroeconomics is done in the best universities and policy institutions such as the U.S. Federal Reserve, the International Monetary Fund, the European Central Bank, Bank of England, the Reserve Banks of New Zealand and Australia."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
[29] "This course extends and reinforces the material developed in Macroeconomics 2 by analysing a number of policy issues in macroeconomics. Its objective is to show how practical problems can be structured and analysed using macroeconomic models and appropriate data. Most of the applications will be drawn from contemporary and historical Australian experience. Topics to be discussed include measurement and interpretation of macroeconomic aggregates; impact of the world economy on short-run fluctuations in Australia; determinants of economic growth and foreign debt; assessment of the impact of fiscal policy; inflation targets and monetary policy; and the persistence of unemployment."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
[30] "The foundations of economic theory are based on mathematical models. Thus, a thorough understanding of the economic content of such models is not possible without a clear understanding of the mathematical concepts that underpin the modeling. Together with ECON4414 - Mathematical Techniques in Economics II, this course forms a two-semester sequence, which introduces students to a range of mathematical concepts and techniques that form the basis of advanced economic theory courses, such as the ones required of students enrolled in Honours, Masters and PhD programs. The introduced concepts and techniques will be derived from basic principles and assumptions as thoroughly as possible, and will be illustrated using standard applications from economics.  Due to the strong interdependence between the topics covered in the two courses, students are encouraged to take both courses as a sequence in the same year. "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
[31] "The course will focus on Microeconomic theory as an approach to organizing economic ideas through modelling. This course will examine some basic components of economic theory concerning the allocation of scarce resources:individual non-strategic decision making by consumers and firms, Markets and General Equilibrium, Game Theory for extending the models of consumers and producers to strategic settings (with an emphasis on asymmetric information and mechanism design), and models of how decisions are made in non market settings through political institutions or within firms. Along the way we will consider how to include uncertainty in models and how to establish the existence of equilibria/optima and the comparative static properties of these predicted outcomes. "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
[32] "The course examines how individuals and firms make decisions by weighing up costs and benefits, and how the interaction of their decisions leads to market and social outcomes. The model of market supply and demand is employed to examine the effects of taxes, subsidies, and other government interventions in market activity. The implications of different market structures, including perfect competition and monopoly, are examined.  Public goods, externalities and common resources are key examples of cases in which private markets may yield socially sub-optimal outcomes.  Such cases are examined and the role of government policy in correcting for these is discussed."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
[33] "Building upon material introduced in Microeconomics 1, this course aims to provide a solid understanding of basic microeconomic theory and the ability to apply those tools and ideas. Models describing the economic behaviour of individual decision-makers and the outcomes of markets are developed and applied to examine the welfare of market participants. Questions addressed include: What influences consumer demand decisions and how? How do firms decide on how much to produce and how much inputs to use? How do prices function to coordinate economic activity? What is meant by economic efficiency? When do markets fail to achieve efficient outcomes? Training in economic analysis is achieved via weekly tutorials that go over problem sets linked to material presented in lecture. Overall, the course takes an analytical approach emphasising rigorous logical reasoning and economic problem solving."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
[34] "The foundations of economic theory are based on mathematical models. Thus, a thorough understanding of the economic content of such models is not possible without a clear understanding of the mathematical concepts that underpin the modeling. Together with ECON2127 - Mathematics for Economists B, this course forms a two-semester sequence, which introduces students to a range of mathematical concepts and techniques that form the basis of advanced economic theory courses, such as the ones required of students enrolled in Honours, Masters and PhD programs. The introduced concepts and techniques will be derived from basic principles and assumptions as thoroughly as possible, and will be illustrated using standard applications from economics."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
[35] "The seminar based course designed for students on the PPE degree will study classic texts in PPE.  Each session a group of students will introduce a classic article locating it in the literature and demonstrating the puzzle or problem the author addressed and the solution they came up with.  The seminar group will be expected to critique the article and consider other potential solutions."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
[36] "This course analyses the economic principles underlying the design of efficient environmental policies and the optimal management of natural resources. It identifies conditions under which market failures lead to environmental degradation or to the overexploitation of natural resources, and discusses economic policies that can counteract such market failures. Such policies include imposing taxes on certain economic activities, or allocating property rights that allow these activities to be undertaken. If property rights—which may take the form of pollution permits, or individual quotas for the harvesting of natural resources—are transferable between agents, the trade of property rights between self-interested agents yields economic efficiency as a market-based outcome."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
[37] "This Special Topics course (reading course) in Macroeconomics will cover a large amount of material and special advanced topics in Macroeconomics that are not covered in regular RSE courses. Topics will be delivered at higher level and tailored to Lecturer/Student needs."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
[38] "This Special Topics course will cover a specific material in dynamic programming and stochastic processes as they apply to economics."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
[39] "This Special topics course (reading course) in Microeconomics will cover a large amount of material and special advanced topics in Microeconomics that are not covered in regular RSE courses and topics will be delivered at higher level and tailored to Lecturer/Student needs."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
[40] "In many - perhaps most - economic, political, legal and social interactions, there is potential for strategic behaviour, a term, “intended to focus on the interdependence of the adversaries' decisions and on their expectations about each other's behaviour.” (Schelling, 1960, The Strategy of Conflict).   Recognising and understanding such behaviour is an essential part of any analyst's toolkit and this course is designed to enable just such recognition and understanding. Game theory has successfully been applied in a diverse range of fields, such as economics, political science, military analysis, law, biology and computer science.The aim of this course is to provide an introduction to strategic thinking and analysis through the basic techniques of game theory and to illustrate the range of its applications in almost all fields of social interaction.  While the level of the course will be introductory, and mathematical prerequisites are minimal, the presentation of the material will rely on precise logical arguments.  This course should be of interest to students from any part of the University. "                                                                       
[41] "Currently, in most of the economics that is taught, government decisions are not adequately explained, but are treated as exogenous, or (sometimes), assumed to be determined by considerations of 'optimality'. The course seeks to develop an understanding of how governments actually use their 'policy space' in economic matters, and how they actually respond to expansions (or contractions) in that space. "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
[42] "Currently, in most of the economics that is taught, government decisions are not adequately explained, but are treated as exogenous, or (sometimes), assumed to be determined by considerations of 'optimality'. The course seeks to develop an understanding of how governments actually use their 'policy space' in economic matters, and how they actually respond to expansions (or contractions) in that space."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
[43] "The theory of games helps us to understand situations where many agents interact in a strategic setting, where each agent's wellbeing depends on the behaviour of all agents. Game theory is a collection of analytic techniques widely used in many sciences. It has provided powerful tools that have successfully been applied in almost every field of economics and in many other disciplines, as well as creative and rigorous ways of developing new ideas and applications. The course covers a range of topics in advanced game theory, including current research topics."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
[44] "This course continues the discussion of microeconomic theory at the graduate level, as started in ECON4411 Microeconomic Theory A.  It will cover topics in microeconomic theory that extend beyond those covered in ECON4411. Topics might include applications of game theory, the economics of information, contract theory, and mechanism design. Students are expected to have the ability to follow rigorous abstract arguments, as used in the construction and analysis of mathematical models in economics. "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
