[1] "This course will examine modern applied research on macroeconomic and financial issues. The main objective is to allow students to understand, critically appraise and replicate applied work on macroeconomic and financial topics."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
[2] "This course will examine modern applied research on macroeconomic and financial issues. The main objective is to allow students to understand and critically appraise applied work on macroeconomic and financial topics."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
[3] "Accurate forecasting of future events and their outcomes is a crucial input into a successful business or economic planning process. This course provides an introduction to the application of various forecasting techniques. The methods include trend curve extrapolation, smoothing, autoregressions, regression modelling, leading indicators. The course also looks at techniques for the evaluation of performance of forecasting methods and examines the role of forecasts in the decision making process. Students will learn how to use the various techniques in real world forecasting applications. "                                                                                                                                                                                   
[4] "Accurate forecasting of future events and their outcomes is a crucial input into a successful business or economic planning process. This course provides an introduction to the application of various forecasting techniques. The methods include trend curve extrapolation smoothing, autoregressions, regression modelling, leading indicators. The course also looks at techniques for the evaluation of performance of forecasting methods and examines the role of forecasts in the decision making process. Students will learn how to use the various techniques in real world forecasting applications."                                                                                                                                                                                     
[5] "This is an advanced course on econometric theory. It will provide students with grounding in the theory that underpins many standard econometric methods.  It will stress fundamental ideas and general concepts so that students can draw connections between various methods presented in other courses, and learn to derive simple theoretical results from first principles and apply them to specific cases. The course does not attempt to provide details on the theory behind all possible econometric models, but instead seeks to ensure that students gain sufficient skills to allow them to understand the key issues and hence to be able to read and understand advanced texts and journal articles on current research that they may come across in their future studies or research. "
[6] "The course studies important extensions of the linear regression model. Topics include: endogeneity, natural experiments, binary dependent variables, time series regressions and panel data estimation. This is a hand-on course with a focus on applications in economics as well as business. A standard statistical software will be used during computer sessions, no special programming skills are required."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
[7] "The course teaches the mathematical foundations of models in economics, business and finance and its applications. Mathematical topics covered include set theory, functions, series, limits, univariate and multivariate calculus, unconstrained and constrained optimisation, matrix algebra. Applications include effective interest rates, present value, annuities, production functions, average and marginal cost functions, profit maximisation."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
[8] "This Special Topic course (reading course) in Econometrics will cover a large amount of material and special advanced topics in Econometrics that are not covered in regular RSE courses. Topics will be delivered at a higher level and tailored to Lecturer/Student needs."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
