 [1] "This course consists of a series of modules dealing with advanced geophysical methods used to explore Earth. The course combines advanced theory in these areas with integrated case studies and applications related to current research topics. Typical topics covered in the course include Earth deformation, seismology, remote sensing of the Earth, structure and evolution of planetary interiors and satellite geodesy."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
 [2] "This course provides an introduction to powerful analytical techniques used to determine the elemental and isotopic compositions of Earth materials such as rocks, minerals, microfossils, corals and water."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
 [3] NA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
 [4] "This Course will cover:"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
 [5] "This Course will cover:"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
 [6] "Data analysis is the most powerful tool we have for separating scientific fact from fiction. The aim of this course is to provide an introduction to statistical and numerical techniques that are useful in the analysis and characterisation of geological data. A focus will be placed on conceptual understanding of how specific methods work and the situations in which they can and cannot be applied. A number of practical examples will be discussed during the course, providing the opportunity for hands-on learning through the processing of real data sets with statistical software and data evaluation programs. The experience gained in this course will help students approach their own research problems."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
 [7] "This course provides an introduction to the key physical and chemical processes that shape our planet."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
 [8] "Honours in Geology/Earth and Marine Science is offered as an additional year of study for the Bachelor of Science program."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
 [9] "This course covers the distribution, geological setting and genesis of metalliferous mineral deposits. Factors controlling the formation of these deposits and the linkages with many other geologic processes covered in other courses are explored. Practical work involves mineragraphy and study of a range of classic mineral deposits."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
[10] "Climate change has been identified as one of the biggest challenges facing humankind. The goal of this course is to provide students with the scientific principles and empirical evidence that underpin the modern understanding of anthropogenic climate change. We will develop a quantitative understanding of the fundamental physics (radiation and surface energy balance, dynamics) governing the earth system. We will examine the synthesis of climate observations to discern current global trends and investigate past climates. In particular, we will analyse uncertainties in the current predictions and outline ways in which the scientific community is moving to refine these predictions. Key components of the course will be informed using insights from ongoing research within the ARC Centre of Excellence in Climate System Science."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
[11] "Climate change has been identified as one of the biggest challenges facing  humankind. The goal of this course is to provide students with the scientific  principles and empirical evidence that underpin the modern understanding of  anthropogenic climate change. We will develop a quantitative understanding of  the fundamental physics (radiation and surface energy balance, dynamics)  governing the earth system. We will examine the synthesis of climate  observations to discern current global trends and investigate past climates. In  particular, we will analyse uncertainties in the current predictions and outline  ways in which the scientific community is moving to refine these predictions.  Key components of the course will be informed using insights from ongoing  research within the ARC Centre of Excellence in Climate System Science."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
[12] "This course provides an overview of the co-evolution of life and Earth through time, from the origin of life, early evolution in ancient Precambrian oceans, the emergence of animal life in the Cambrian explosion, the invasion of land by plants, and the major mass extinctions that saw major turnover off forms of life, including the demise of dinosaurs. The course will provide an overview of the major groups of plant and animal fossils (theoretically and based on inspection of specimens during practicals) and show how they can be used to reconstruct ancient environments and ecosystems. The course will also teach the basics of unconventional signs of life in the rock record such as molecular fossils and isotopic traces. "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
[13] "This course provides an overview of the co-evolution of life and Earth through time, from the origin of life, early evolution in ancient Precambrian oceans, the emergence of animal life in the Cambrian explosion, the invasion of land by plants, and the major mass extinctions that saw major turnover off forms of life, including the demise of dinosaurs. The course will provide an overview of the major groups of plant and animal fossils (theoretically and based on inspection of specimens during practicals) and show how they can be used to reconstruct ancient environments and ecosystems. The course will also teach the basics of unconventional signs of life in the rock record such as molecular fossils and isotopic traces.  This course is for students of geology, biology, chemistry, archaeology, and climate change.Honours Pathway Option (HPO)Additional readings of greater conceptual difficulty requiring an advanced scientific understanding will be made available for students enrolled in the Honours Pathway Option. 10% of the total mark will relate to a selected additional assignment for which the student can choose between either a 1000 word essay, an additional oral presentation (15 min). The topic and style of this additional assignment will be discussed with each student individually."                                                                                                                                                                                                                
[14] "This course is of interest to students in science, environment, engineering, law and other disciplines because of the importance of groundwater as a resource and to our environment. The course will include the study of hydrologic balance, hydraulic properties of rocks and regolith, the theory and practice of groundwater flow in porous and fractured media, and the geochemistry of groundwater. Emphasis will be on the quantification of groundwater flow (distribution, velocity and flux of groundwater), its impact on surface water quality and the processes that affect groundwater geochemistry. There will be example applications for water resources, environmental impact, industrial/commercial development, mining and mineral exploration."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
[15] "This course is of interest to students in science, environment, engineering, law and other disciplines because of the importance of groundwater as a resource and to our environment. The course will include the study of hydrologic balance, hydraulic properties of rocks and regolith, the theory and practice of groundwater flow in porous and fractured media, and the geochemistry of groundwater. Emphasis will be on the quantification of groundwater flow (distribution, velocity and flux of groundwater), its impact on surface water quality and the processes that affect groundwater geochemistry. There will be example applications for water resources, environmental impact, industrial/commercial development, mining and mineral exploration."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
[16] "There are considerable concerns about how rising atmospheric CO2 will affect Earth's climate and marine biogeochemistry in the future. Computer simulations are used to predict future climate changes, but these projections remain very uncertain and the capacity of climate models to reproduce long-term change needs to be thoroughly tested. The only way to do this is by testing model performance against geological archives of past climate changes."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
[17] "There are considerable concerns about how rising atmospheric CO2 will affect Earth's climate and marine biogeochemistry in the future. Computer simulations are used to predict future climate changes, but these projections remain very uncertain and the capacity of climate models to reproduce long-term change needs to be thoroughly tested. The only way to do this is by testing model performance against geological archives of past climate changes."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
[18] "The structure and dynamic processes of the Earth are measured, quantified and understood by utilizing principles and methods from the physical sciences. Core areas of study include seismology, geodynamics, geodesy and geophysical fluid dynamics. A variety of course work from these fields is on offer, in addition to a supervised research project worth 50% of the final mark. The goal of Physics of the Earth Honours is to gain a solid grounding in quantitative analysis of physical processes based on both theory and observation. For example, plate tectonics, in which distinct pieces of the rigid outer shell of the Earth constantly move and interact due to internal heating, manifests in seismic (e.g. earthquakes), geodetic (e.g. GPS displacement) and geodynamic (e.g. crustal deformation) observation. Evidence from these fields of study have been central to gaining a better understanding of convection within the Earth's mantle, and how the continents have shifted and deformed over time. More specifically, coursework will cover seismic wave propagation, earthquake source mechanisms and seismic imaging; fundamental concepts in fluid dynamics and their application to the Earth (e.g. Buoyancy driven flow in the ocean); sea level change and variations in polar ice cap volumes from satellite data; the physical behaviour of minerals and rocks at pressures and temperatures encountered deep within the Earth; and theory and numerical methods for solving geophysical inverse and data inference problems."
[19] "This course provides an introduction to planetary geology with a view to understanding what makes planet Earth so special in a galactic context. We will explore the solar system and humans' place in it. We will examine the essential ingredients for life on planets and how the planets come by them. We will step back in time to examine the earliest solar system, going back to the origin of the elements themselves and the processes that have occurred in carrying matter from where it formed to where it can build new solar systems. The conditions on individual planets appears to be the result of many stochastic processes and it can be concluded that our solar system is the end-product of many accidental and chance events, leading to a philosophical discussion of whether planets similar to Earth will be discovered elsewhere in the universe."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
[20] "This course provides an introduction into research methods relevant to Earth Sciences through a series of lectures, seminars and tutorials. Students learn how to conduct and present research as well as conducting a thorough literature review for their own research project that they will undertake in EMSC4005 or EMSC4008."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
[21] "This course allows a special topic of study for individuals or small groups of students who wish to gain particular or additional knowledge in a topic in Earth Science not covered in other courses taught at the Research School of Earth Sciences or elsewhere in the University."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
[22] "This course allows a special topic of study for individuals or small groups of students who wish to gain particular or additional knowledge in a topic in earth science not covered in other courses taught in the School or elsewhere in the University."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
[23] "This course allows a special topic of study for individuals or small groups of students who wish to gain particular or additional knowledge in a topic in earth science not covered in other courses taught in the School or elsewhere in the University."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
[24] "This course allows a special topic of study for individuals or small groups of students who wish to gain particular or additional knowledge in a topic in Earth Science not covered in other courses taught at the Research School of Earth Sciences or elsewhere in the University."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
[25] "This course allows a special topic of study for individuals or small groups of students who wish to gain particular or additional knowledge in a topic in earth science not covered in other courses taught in the School or elsewhere in the University."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
[26] "This course will introduce students to topics of current interest, taking advantage of the expertise of visitors and staff."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
