 [1] NA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
 [2] NA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
 [3] "Control Systems is the study of the analysis and regulation of the output behaviors of dynamical systems subject to input signals. The concepts and tools discussed in this course can be used in a wide spectrum of engineering disciplines such as mechanical, electrical, aerospace, manufacturing, biomedical, and even financial engineering. The emphasis of this course will be on analysis and feedback controller design methods for linear time-invariant systems. "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
 [4] NA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
 [5] NA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
 [6] "This course will present innovation in the engineering context and use case studies sourced from industry for analysis and discussion. Students will develop an understanding of innovation processes and management within an engineering organizational environment. The organizational structure and the roles of science and technology in promoting an innovative environment, together with the associated risks and uncertainties, will be covered. The value, protection and management of Intellectual Property (IP) both in an organizational and legal context will also be considered. Students will be introduced to new engineering product development processes. The study of entrepreneurship will include start-up pathways, the establishment of a start-up company establishment and legal obligations.  Operational and finance plans in support of engineering start-up companies will also be considered."                                                                                                                                                                                         
 [7] "The aim of this course is to use the internship experience to enable students to develop their engineering skills and practice. Invited Students will be placed in industry, working full-time and assessed for academic credit. The internships will be aligned with the aims of the engineering program and its areas of specialisation. Students will experience a real-life engineering workplace and understand how their engineering and professional skills and knowledge can be utilised in industry. They will also be able to demonstrate functioning engineering knowledge, both new and existing, and identify areas of further development for their future careers."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
 [8] "This course is one of a suite of research and development courses designed for the BE (R&D) Program. These courses are of varying length and are offered at different stages of the degree program and are essentially stand-alone research projects. ENGN3706 is a 6-unit research course designed to complement the students' basic research skills through non-trivial research work in an area chosen by the student. The course forms part of the 42-unit R&D major that is a compulsory component of the aforementioned degree program. Each student will have their research supervised by one or more academic supervisors, with the approval of Head of Department or the Delegated Authority. Students are responsible for engaging and obtaining appropriate supervisory support."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
 [9] "This course is one of a suite of research and development courses designed for the BE (R&D) program. These courses are varying length and are offered at different stages of the degree program and are essentially stand-alone research projects. ENGN3712 is a 12 unit research course designed to complement the student's basic research skills through non-trivial research work in an area chosen by the student."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
[10] "This course is one of a suite of research and development courses designed for the BE (R&D) Program. These courses are of varying length and are offered at different stages of the degree program and are essentially stand-alone research projects. ENGN2707 is a 2nd year 6-unit research course that runs in semester 2 and is not compulsory for the R&D degree. It is designed to complement ENGN2706 and the students' basic research skills through non-trivial research work in an area chosen by the student. Each student will have their research supervised by one or more academic supervisors, with the approval of Head of Department or the Delegated Authority. Students are responsible for engaging and obtaining appropriate supervisory support."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
[11] "This course is one of a suite of research and development courses designed for the BE (R&D) Program. These courses are of varying length and are offered at different stages of the degree program and are essentially stand-alone research projects. ENGN4718 is an 18-unit research course designed to complement the students' basic research skills through non-trivial research work in an area chosen by the student."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
[12] "This course is one of a suite of research and development courses designed for the BE (R&D) Program. These courses are of varying length and are offered at different stages of the degree program and are essentially stand-alone research projects. ENGN4712 is a 12-unit research course designed to complement the students' basic research skills through non-trivial research work in an area chosen by the student. The course forms part of the 42-unit R&D major that is a compulsory component of the aforementioned degree program. Each student will have their research supervised by one or more academic supervisors, with the approval of Head of Department or the Delegated Authority. Students are responsible for engaging and obtaining appropriate supervisory support."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
[13] "This course is one of a suite of research and development courses designed for the BE (R&D) Program. These courses are of varying length and are offered at different stages of the degree program and are essentially stand-alone research projects. ENGN4706 is a 6-unit research course designed to complement the students' basic research skills through non-trivial research work in an area chosen by the student. The course forms part of the 42-unit R&D major that is a compulsory component of the aforementioned degree program. Each student will have their research supervised by one or more academic supervisors, with the approval of Head of Department or the Delegated Authority. Students are responsible for engaging and obtaining appropriate supervisory support."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
[14] "The increasing need for engineers to address sustainability will add significant complexity to their tasks. They will therefore need the skills and knowledge to understand and predict the impact of their practice. This course will focus on the dynamics of complex  systems in the context of the environmental and social impacts of technological innovation. Students will develop knowledge and skills that provide a basis for the design and sustainable operation of engineering-environment-social systems that are highly non-linear. Sustainability will be defined in engineering terms, and the basic dynamical principles will be explored in tutoral discussions. The course will be presented using a 'problem based learning' mode of delivery."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
[15] "This course conveys the fundamental thermodynamic principles and analysis methods, with an emphasis on applications to engineered systems and processes. The topics covered include basic concepts and definitions, first law of thermodynamics and its applications to closed and open systems, second law of thermodynamics, equations of state, thermodynamic property relations, ideal gas mixtures, psychrometrics, reacting mixtures, and chemical and phase equilibrium. Examples of using thermodynamic principles for design and performance analysis are given for selected systems and components such as conventional and renewable-based power plants, engines, heat pumps, buildings, air conditioners, fuel cells, and chemical reactors."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
[16] "Students enrol in this course when they have been approved to participate in formal exchange with one of The Australian National University's exchange partners. Please contact your program authority for further details regarding exchanges."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
[17] "The course provides advanced knowledge on the application of finite element analysis to engineering applications in linear structural mechanics and heat transfer problems. The course analyses critically problems involving one, two and three dimensional idealizations. The topics covered include steps in finite element modelling process, behaviour of spring, truss, beam, plane stress/strain and three dimensional finite element modelling approaches in structural mechanics. The heat transfer part of the course examines the conduction and convection behaviour and analysing these mechanisms using finite element analysis. Advanced topics covered include iso parametric formulations and efficient modelling strategies. An individual cap stone design project applies the finite element methodology to practical engineering design in structural mechanics through a state of art commercial finite element software."                                                                                                                                                                          
[18] "Students undertake an individual engineering project, with supervision.Students are encouraged to put forward their own ideas for the individual project, or they may select a project from a range of ideas offered by researchers across the ANU. If the student initiates an idea, he or she must find a supervisor to accept the project."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
[19] "This course introduces the students to the fundamentals of electrical and electronic engineering. It provides the students with an understanding of basic electrical quantities, circuit elements and circuit analysis techniques. It also provides an understanding of the principles and operation of diodes and operational amplifiers. Specific topics include:"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
[20] "This course introduces the fundamental principles in mechanics. Structural design applications of a variety of problems are developed throughout the course using examples that elucidate the theory of mechanics. The primary aim of this course is to provide a solid foundation for students in the field of mechanical engineering. Specific topics include:"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
[21] "This course introduces to the fundamentals of nano-scale engineering and manufacturing. Current and future applications of nanostructured materials will be reviewed with respect to their impact in commercial products and technologies. Particular emphasis will be placed in biomedical applications. The main physical forces controlling the nucleation and deposition of nanostructures will be presented allowing a better understanding of key design factors at the nano-scale. Well-established and novel synthesis/fabrication methods nanostructures will be critically discussed giving a broad overview of the state-of-the-art nanomanufacturing processes. Standard characterization methods will be elucidated using various examples and exercises throughout the course."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
[22] "This course will cover the application of photonics outside of the telecommunications applications (covered in ENGN4513) and includes fundamental knowledge of a wide range of photonic sensors and instruments.  These technologies find applications in architecture, astronomy, automotive, aerospace and structural health (bridges, ships), as well as the increasing use of photonics in medical procedures and diagnostics including endoscopy, laser therapy and dosimetry.  Laboratory work covers both hands-on, fibre-based experiments and software simulations."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
[23] "Modern power electronics devices and circuits are now in widespread use, across an ever-increasing number of power conversion and power control applications. The purpose of this course is to give a detailed introduction to the key aspects of power electronic circuits, components and design."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
[24] "The BE degree at the ANU is accredited by the Engineers Australia. A requirement of Engineers Australia, as part of the degree accreditation, is that ALL students MUST complete the equivalent of 12 weeks of full-time work experience outside the University during their studies. This is implemented in the BE degree at the ANU as the ENGN3100 course. Besides accreditation, the work experience has the following two purposes:"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
[25] "This course provides an introduction to the mechanics of robots and spatial mechanics. The theoretical focus is on kinematics and dynamics of robotic manipulators and control design for non-linear mechanical systems. Topics covered include: homogeneous coordinate transformations, representation of spatial orientation, Denavit-Hartenberg link descriptions, forward and inverse kinematics, Jacobian rate and static force relations, singularities, recursive Newton-Euler iteration and Euler-Lagrange derivations of manipulator dynamics, trajectory planning, linear control, computed torque control, passivity based control. The applied component of the course includes experimental work with robotic manipulators and a mechatronic design and build project."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
[26] "This course provides a foundation in semiconductors: from the physics and fabrication technologies to the workings of semiconductor devices and the applications that they enable. We will uncover the physical concepts behind semiconductor material properties; investigate the basic building blocks of semiconductor devices; and generalise this to describe more complex semiconductor device applications. Finally, we take a look at the current developments and emerging trends in semiconductor technologies."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
[27] "This course presents the principles, theory and techniques fundamental to the analysis and design of continuous time and discrete time signal processing systems. The concepts are illustrated with examples from circuit theory, signal processing, bio-medical engineering, communications, etc. The course has three hardware laboratories using the Telecommunications Instructional Modelling System (TIMS) and one computer laboratory based around MATLAB."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
[28] "This course conveys the principles of solar thermal engineering. The topics covered include low- and high-temperature solar thermal energy collectors, solar thermal conversion processes, thermal energy storage, systems design and control. Theoretical material is balanced with practical experience in laboratories and design case studies. It is a capstone course for Engineering Thermodynamics and Fluid Mechanics and Heat Transfer stream in the Renewable Energy Systems major."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
[29] "    "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
[30] "This is an interdisciplinary course interfering with biomedical-sensing, mechanics, materials, structures, electronic systems, micro-/nano-fabrication and the disciplines of physics and chemistry. MEMS/NEMS (Micro/Nano Electro-Mechanical System) technology, which integrates various micro/nano-sale sensors and actuators on a single chip, are becoming important as biological probes for molecule level mechanical sensing and manipulation. This course will discuss the fundamentals of bio-MEMS, micro-structures, micro-fludics, micro-sensors and micro-actuators. It includes simple micro-electro-mechanical systems, scaling electronic and mechanical systems to the micro-/nano-meter scale bio-sensors, material issues, and the integration of micromechanical structures and actuators with simple electronics.Main topics:•    Micro -fabrication and Micro-structures•    Bio-sensors based on mechanical resonator•    Surface functionalization•    Bio-molecule mass transportation•    Micro-fludics for bio-sensing•    Bio-molecule interaction•    Bio-sensing sensitivity and limitation"
[31] "Within this course, topics may be offered from time to time to take advantage of the expertise of visitors to the University and academic staff in the IAS. Admission to the course is at the discretion of the Head of Engineering."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
[32] NA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
[33] "This course builds on ENGN2225 Systems Engineering Design. Systems analysis is an important part of the overall interdisciplinary systems engineering approach. This course will show students how to utilise systems analysis for effective design evaluation, and as a means for improving and optimising existing systems.  "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
[34] "This course is designed to mimic an industrial design problem as closely as practical in a university setting. Students are assigned to teams and given an ill-defined problem statement. From the problem statement, the students are responsible for developing the full set of requirements and key performance indicators to guide the design. The students then proceed through a systems design process including conceptual design, sub-system requirements, and quantitative tradeoff analyses, using the full range of engineering science and professional skills developed during the degree course. The course emphasises teamwork (both team leadership and membership), communication skills (formal and informal, written and oral), and team and personal management and a professional approach to engineering design."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
[35] "This course provides a comprehensive overview and advanced knowledge of modern mobile and wireless communication systems. Building on the prior knowledge on digital communications, students develop further understanding on the challenges and opportunities brought by the wireless medium in designing current and future wireless communication systems and networks. Topics include: overview of digital wireless communications, cellular concept; interference and traffic analysis for cellular networks; wireless fading channel modelling and characterization; modulation and detection performance over fading channels; equalization techniques; multi-carrier systems; spread spectrum techniques; receiver and transmitter diversity techniques; information theory of wireless channels; multiple antenna systems and space-time communications; and cooperative communications; 2G standards (e.g. GSM, CDMA), 3G standards and beyond."                                                                                                                                                               
