[1] "This course will focus on recent German cinema, particularly films produced since the year 2000, analysing various themes affecting contemporary German society through a visual as well as narrative framework. These include questions of identity, \"otherness,” and intercultural encounter, as well as themes of \"Heimat\" (sense of home) and dealing with the past.In particular, the course explores:- how ideas of home and identity are destabilized by experiences such as exile, emigration, or political change;- what constitutes contemporary “German” and “European” identity;- how ideas about national identity intersect with other social identities, including cultural, ethnic, regional, and transnational affinities, as well as identities based in class, gender, and sexuality;- how contemporary films provide a means of coming to terms with Germany's turbulent 20th-century past, including the horrors of the Third Reich, and the country's forty-year division into East and West.The German-language version of this course aims specifically to equip students with an active and specialized vocabulary in German for talking about and analyzing films beyond the level of narrative analysis, as well as a theoretical understanding of important social issues."
[2] "With an emphasis on academic German, this course continues with the development of listening and reading comprehension skills and with the development of oral and written communication. Students will learn and practise how to write a university essay (Hausarbeit) in German and how to give a class presentation with academic content (Referat).The course introduces students to German literature of the 1990s and engages students in the study of topical issues in contemporary German-speaking societies. The latter includes a research project on Switzerland. Furthermore, the course provides students with learning opportunities in the area of intercultural communication."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
[3] "This course continues with the development of listening and reading comprehension skills and with the development of oral and written communication. This includes an extension of basic German grammar and vocabulary, and training in and reflection on language learning strategies."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
[4] "This course continues with the development of listening and reading comprehension skills and with the development of oral and written communication. This includes the study of modern German grammar and vocabulary, and training in and reflection on language learning strategies.The course introduces students to contemporary literature, film and culture in the German language with a focus on 20th century history of the German-speaking countries. Students will reflect on concepts such as 'Vergangenheitsbewältigung' and how they are dealt with in literature, film, museums, etc. The course encourages students to relate those contents to their own cultural background. "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
[5] "In this second introductory course students continue to develop basic listening and reading comprehension, as well as oral and written German communication skills, including culturally appropriate language use. The course continues to provide an introduction to basic German grammar and training in language learning strategies.  Students are introduced to further aspects of life and culture of the German-speaking societies."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
