 [1] "The American 1960s were marked by prosperity, a losing war, civil rights movements and an explosion of youth culture. In the process it became one of the most documented, celebrated and condemned decades of the twentieth century. This course examines the United States' 1960s to raise questions about the significance of the Vietnam War, the War against Poverty, Civil Rights and the counter culture for American society and values. Along the way we can also explore the usefulness of decades as units of historical time and the parallels and contrasts between the experiences of other nations during these years."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
 [2] "At the conclusion of the Second World War in 1945, Europe was reduced to rubble. This course examines the troubled history of attempts to re-establish prosperity and democracy in the postwar period. In Eastern Europe, Communist dictatorships claimed to provide a superior political and economic system. In Western Europe, the strengthening of democracy often took a back seat to the demands of the Cold War, the legacies of totalitarianism, the reluctance to decolonise and the prioritisation of economic growth. Protest and dissent - from students, feminists and terrorists - marked both East and West. This course examines the origins and contradictions of contemporary European politics and society in order better to understand the trials and tribulations of Europe in the early 21st century. "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
 [3] "What does it mean to practice history in the digital age? How are digital technologies shaping the way we conceptualise the past, design and conduct historical research, and communicate our findings? What does digital history offer in terms of innovative and substantive new ways of understanding the past, andhow has it changed the way society 'consumes' the past?Exploring these questions and more, this course introduces students to the theory and practice of researching, writing, and presenting history in a digital world. The course is built around three main threads. The first of these-- the pedagogy of digital history-- explores how digital technologies have impacted the production, consumption, and preservation of 'the past' in modern society, and the wider theoretical and methodological issues facing historical study in a digital age. A second thread-- researching in a digital environment-- focuses on the development of skills and abilities in using digital tools and the Internet in historical research, while the third thread--producing history in a digital world-- will give students the opportunity to apply digital methods to their own research, and experience in writing and producing history for the web through the design and execution of a small web-based project."
 [4] "This course will explore continuities and resilience among indigenous peoples in the Americas, Africa, Asia, the Pacific and in Europe, particularly in relation to the intrusions of colonisation. The survival of these peoples owes much to their agency in maintaining and creating alternative historical narratives, often resisting or negotiating broad concepts of indigeneity. This course explores converging literatures about global Aboriginal and Native histories since colonisation. The course examines the importance of language within historical narratives, assessing the ways in which these narratives generate conditions of survival. The topics covered will include concepts of identity within the process of colonisation and decolonisation, evolving government policies, ideas of sovereignty, treaties and other formal relationships between colonised and colonisers, the forms of post-colonialisms and world-wide movements for redemption, regeneration and reconciliation. Particular attention will be given to the relevant discourses about difference including an examination of the use and sensitivities of various group descriptors such as indigenous, native and aborigine."                                                                                                            
 [5] "This course provides an overview of the conquest and colonisation of Latin America.  it does so in the context of the major theoretical perspectives and controversies surrounding this process.  Topics dealt with will include the nature of two pre-Columbian empires - the Aztecs and the Incas, the motivations for the conquest, the dynamics of settler societies, theoretical perspectives on colonisation and the \"rise of the west\" and key political and economic structures of colonial Latin America.  These topics are dealt with in terms of the Implications of each for Latin America today."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
 [6] "This course provides a fresh introduction to Australian history since 1788. We will cast aside many of the traditional assumptions about Australian history, and seek to replace them with new angles of vision on the main episodes and the large and varied cast of women and men who have shaped this nation from its contested beginnings. The course uses three main approaches:"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
 [7] "This course aims to induct students into the historian's craft. In particular, it will assist students to undertake an historical research project using primary source materials, and to present their work in a form appropriate to its subject matter, purpose and audience. Through a program of seminars, workshops, site visits and feedback, each student will formulate an independent research proposal, conduct research using a variety of historical sources, and construct a research output. Students will be invited to reflect on questions of method, ethics, audience and presentation in historical research and communication. All students undertaking a history major will be required to complete this course."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
 [8] "This course seeks to enhance students' skills in historical writing and presentation.  Students enrolled in this course will analyse critically a range of historical texts and genres, focussing particularly on issues of structure, style, voice and narrative technique.  They will explore diverse means of presenting research findings, including visual and oral presentation.  They will reflect on their own practices and those of others. Topics examine the art and craft of historical practice in traditional and contemporary forms of historical writing and performance. Through workshops, students will develop their own abilities in the design and presentation of a research project.  Collectively, the components of the course provide extended analysis of, and training in, methods of expression and communication within the discipline of history.  The skills developed, however, have much broader professional applications. "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
 [9] "Terror, terrorist acts and terrorism is as old as human history.  Individuals, sects, cults, despotic rulers, revolutionaries, political organizations, independence movements, 'freedom fighters' and modern nation states have for millennia used terror (violence, fear and intimidation) to advance their interests.  Despite this, acts of terror when they occur continue to shock and surprise the community, society or nation in which they take place.  Each generation it seems views terror and terrorism as something unique, frightening and new."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
[10] "This course will consider Australian histories. That is, it will consider different groups' (e.g. indigenous, migrant, women and men) lived experiences as well as their engagement with the Australian past; how they do so and for what reasons. Students will read in a range of historiographies, including the social, cultural, and transnational. They will also consider popular forms of history making (e.g. film, television, museum exhibition) and have the opportunity to use a diverse range of sources in their own work."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
[11] "The course introduces students to the history of Tudor and Stuart England. A main element is politics and personage, yet just as important will be ordinary peoples' daily lives and relationships; their beliefs, values, and customs; fundamental concepts and methods used in the study of the same. Where possible, comparative consideration will be given to the British Isles and England's place therein. "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
[12] "The Second World War was the greatest conflict in history.  60 million men, women and children died in a war that engulfed the globe and shaped the world in which we live.  This course focuses on political, social and cultural aspects of the war in Europe, Asia and the Pacific.  Themes include: Hitler and Japan's war aims; Blitzkrieg in Poland and France; civilian mobilisation; the effects of mass bombing; civilians under Nazi occupation; racial policies and genocide; espionage; Japan's occupation of South East Asia; anti-colonialism and the war in Asia; the decision to drop the atomic bomb."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
