[1] "Accounting Information Systems (AIS) form an integral part of modern organisations since they support managers to plan and control business operations, improve decision-making in organisations, and support financial accounting and reporting. This course examines the way AIS are structured and used in organisations and provides a close look into how these systems work and impact on enterprises. It is suitable for both students with accounting backgrounds and with IT backgrounds."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
[2] "This course aims to provide students from all business disciplines with a general background of BIS. An understanding of BIS is important to the work of business professionals because BIS serves as a bridge between management and operation. For instance, accountants use information systems for business reporting; financial managers use information systems for market forecast; sales managers and marketers use information systems to track customer purchases and to promote new products; information systems designers build and deliver new information services; and executive managers use strategic information systems to determine the company's strategic position. Mastering both business and technology skills and knowledge builds job opportunities, because they can better contribute to shaping their company's strategy and operation."                                                                                                                                                                           
[3] "This course is designed for Honours students to undertake independent research in business information systems. Student will conduct research in their chosen topic under the supervision of an academic staff member with a relevant research interest. Students will be required to identify research problems, review and synthesize literature, develop an appropriate research design, collect and analyse data, and present their findings effectively in a written thesis."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
[4] "This course prepares students for future managerial level appointments by introducing the important management and socio-technical concepts related to the strategic development, investment and use of Business IT systems in organizations and business enterprises. The course actively builds on the material introduced in INFS1001 Business Information Systems and INFS3024 IS Management, by focusing on integrated business systems thinking, particularly in the areas of organizational enterprise architecture and business process management. The course also covers enterprise systems design principles; the human dimension of enterprise systems; trust, security and ethics in the enterprise; enterprise resource, supply chain and customer relationship management systems; and, the importance of handling heterogeneous information systems in business environments. A practically oriented research and consulting report targeted at a contemporary real-world business problem is required as part of the assessment."
[5] "This course approaches information systems from the executive and operational management perspective. It assumes a familiarity with the fundamentals of business and information systems from a technological point of view, as would be covered in a foundation course in this area. The emphasis of the course will be on understanding concepts, characteristics and factors, particularly from technological and non-technological perspectives, that are likely to impact the effectiveness and success of information systems in business environments. The aim of the course is therefore to provide students with a balanced view and deeper understanding of developing information systems strategy and managing information systems from organisational and technical perspectives so that they have a theoretically sound, but nevertheless practically oriented foundation, from which to successfully tackle information systems projects, initiatives and implementations."                                                        
[6] "This unit gives students exposure to project management in an operational context. Students undertake a semester long project planning assignment. By the end of the course, students will be able to demonstrate their ability to plan the following aspects of project management: Project Scope Management, Project Time, Cost and Quality, Project Human Resource Management, Project Communications Management, Project Risk Management, and Project Procurement Management."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
