[1] "This course continues to develop students' communicative competence in Italian, and refine students' analytical skills as well as their imaginative writing ability. This is done through practice in the recognition, analysis and production - especially written - of formal registers and structures of the language. Texts will be studied in relation to their socio-cultural, historical and genre framework within thematic areas of inquiry, which include one or more of gender, literary history, Italian literature and film. Specific topics covered may vary from year to year. The course may be completed more than once if a different topic is studied each time."
[2] "This course continues the probing review of the Italian language begun in ITAL2005, or equivalent. The course integrates music and literature to further the linguistic and cultural learning objectives of the unit. Active language production is encouraged in classroom situations such as role playing, structured conversations and reading and writing activities. Class time is divided between interactive language work, linguistic reflection and Italian culture and society. The assessment is designed to optimise learning through tasks that presume a holistic conception of language and culture learning."                                                       
[3] "The aims of the course are to extend students' fluency and accuracy in spoken and written Italian, to promote a deeper linguistic and cultural sensitivity in social interactions in Italian and to introduce students to Italian history and history of the language. Class time is divided between interactive language work, focus and reflection on form, and a series of lectures on history, language and culture aimed at developing students' understanding of the origins of the Italian state and its rich historical, linguistic, artistic and cultural background."                                                                                                     
[4] "This course builds on basic knowledge and skills acquired in the ITAL 1002 course, or equivalent.  It is designed to broaden the knowledge and skills required to use Italian in a variety of contexts. The methodology employed adopts an intercultural perspective and integrates a communicative approach, aiming to develop all language skills, with linguistic reflection. Use is made of different media and authentic texts, in addition to the prescribed course materials, with particular attention to Italian films. Class time is divided between interactive language work, linguistic and cultural reflection and computer aided language learning."                 
