[1] "Readings from representative works of pre-modern, modern and contemporary Japanese literature"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
[2] "Syllabus: This course is the second half of the beginners level. On the basis of the knowledge and skills obtained through Spoken Japanese 1, the course aims to further develop the Japanese communication skills. It will also establish a solid basis for further study of the language."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
[3] "Japanese 2: Written aims to further develop your knowledge and competence in modern written Japanese. The course will focus on reading and writing skills and on using all three of the writing systems appropriately in a cohesive text. In this course you will learn 180 kanji characters on top of the 120 kanji students are supposed to have learned in JPNS1014 Written Japanese 1. During the semester you will be introduced to different types of text, will learn to write compositions of up to 1200-character in length and read short passages (approximately 1200-character) on various topics.   "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
[4] "Japanese 4 is a higher intermediate Japanese language course which continues on from Japanese 3 aiming to continue to improve student command of modern spoken Japanese, and to encouraging them to develop their listening and speaking skills beyond the intermediate levels to a more advanced stage as we begin to explore how best to engage with 'real' Japanese media—even when you cannot understand everything—taken from TV and film.The course will work through a series of themes relating to Japan in the 21st Century (Performing Arts, Education, Useful Retailers, History, Traditional Arts & Crafts, Japanese and Nature, Politics and The World's Future) to promote your communicative abilities. We will also work with 'real' media (TV broadcasts) to explore some of these issues confronting contemporary Japan. "                                                                                  
[5] "This class consists of two components: online self-study and face-to-face in-class study.Online, students study a textbook, along with prescribed vocabulary lists, grammar points and reading passages, at their own pace. Extensive lecture videos and self-study resources are provided. Students take online quizzes during invigilated computer lab hours to test their understanding of the material. During face-to-face workshops and tutorials students work in small groups reading, discussing and writing about a broad range of real-world materials. The focus of this section of the course is to help students to transition from the certainty of a textbook to the ambiguity and confusion of real-world Japanese.  The language of instruction for this class is Japanese and it is expected that all students will make every effort to use only Japanese in class time and class-related correspondence."
[6] "This tertiary-level extension course is for senior secondary students who have had considerably more exposure to Japanese language than average students and is designed to extend the in-school Advanced Japanese program by developing students' comprehensive language skills. This course focuses on the practical and pragmatic use of the Japanese language in a variety of contexts, through which students are given opportunities to further extend their language proficiency, communication skills, socio-cultural knowledge about Japan, and cross-cultural awareness."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
[7] "This tertiary-level extension course for senior secondary students consolidates the foundation of the students' Japanese language skills, and extends students' study in existing Japanese Continuing language courses for year 11 and 12 Secondary students. This course will enhance students' ability to interact and interpret meaning (spoken and written reception), interact and create meaning (spoken and written production) Japanese through content-based learning, enabling students to communicate in different contexts. Upon completion of the course students will be able to describe their thoughts, experience and feelings in Japanese relatively freely in both speaking and writing, and are expected to have a good understanding of Japanese culture, society and people, and to have developed good Japanese self-study skills."                                                                    
[8] NA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
