[1] " This is an advanced Korean language course, designed for students who have successfully completed Advanced Korean: Film and Society, or have equivalent proficiency. The course utilizes Korean authentic texts, including short stories, editorials, travelogues, essays, cartoons, recipes, or film/drama reviews, to enhance students' ability to read, speak, and write Korean at a professional level. The lecture is largely designed to guide and facilitate students' active learning to gain advanced level Korean in oral and written forms."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
[2] "In Korean 2 students further develop their listening and reading comprehension skills and oral and written communication skills. Students can learn to recognise and apply in conversation and writing a broad range of sentence structures and tenses for everyday situations. Conversational situations covered in the course include one's personal or family situation, leisure, shopping, education, and employment; effectively applying honorifics in conversation and writing. Studying in this course will also allow students to understand how cultural issues such as respect shown in relation to age influence how Korean is spoken.  "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
[3] "This course completes the development of the advanced beginner level of Korean listening and reading comprehension skills and spoken and written communication skills. Competency in everyday spoken language is stressed, with lessons on travel and dining vocabulary, hobbies, and on developing the ability to speak about one's own life and interests. The vocabulary learned in this course allows student to expand their ability to discuss such topics as life goals and wider social issues. Building upon grammar covered in earlier courses students in Korean 4 will learn and consolidate grammatical points and constructions that allow them to conduct appropriate forms of written and oral communication in frequently occurring situations: travel, dining, holidays, hobbies, peer group communication, and their own lives and interests. Studying in this course will also allow students to learn about important cultural practices such as national festivals, customs, costumes and cultures of food and drink.   "
[4] "This course is designed for advanced intermediate students and is aimed at further developing students' writing skills and linguistic competence. Students will gain extensive practice in reading, composition and comprehension. Vocabulary skills are further consolidated by students learning to recognise and use a broad vocabulary encompassing terms encountered in literary, political, and historical texts, with limited use of a dictionary. Building upon grammar covered in earlier courses students in Korean 6 will learn to express ideas using grammatically and stylistically appropriate language to the situation to give explanations, make academic presentations, evaluate others' opinions, and confidently engage in debates. In this course emphasis is placed upon students learning to develop the skills needed to read and comprehend information relating to Korea in a variety of genres and topics such as culture, history, social issues and current political developments.   "                          
[5] "This tertiary-level extension course for senior secondary students complements the existing ACT Beginning Korean language course and similar courses elsewhere in Australia. It uses role-play-based language learning and integrated content to provide students who have just started studying Korean with an opportunity to deepen their understanding of the language within authentic contexts by means of guided research into student-directed projects, and high-order content delivered in a university setting.Topics include: the evolution of Korean language since the start of the twentieth century; Gender and Korean language in the contemporary context; the impact of technology on the Korean Language; the influence of K-Pop on contemporary Korean.This course has been designed to be accessible to ab-initio learners of the language. The Korean Continuing-ANU H course for intermediate learners has a parallel course structure and approach, but will be assessed at an intermediate level of language"         
