 [1] "This course is a follow-up to the compulsory International Law course LAWS2250 (LLB(Hons)) and LAWS6250 (JD)."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
 [2] "National Security Law is a burgeoning field of concern for Government, security agencies, civil rights monitors, and the Australian public. As both the nature of threats (represented by, for example, the 11 September 2001 attacks in the US, or the rise of cyber security as a major national security concern) and the concept of 'security' (such as biosecurity) have evolved, legal responses have similarly evolved. This course offers a broad brush across a number of issues concerning national security law. The course will commence with a series of building blocks (heads of power, conceptions of security, historical background). This will then allow more detailed exploration of a series of institutional issues (such as the legislative arrangements for important national security institutions, and the 'security law' making and monitoring process), practical issues (such as use of force, and use of classified information in prosecutions), and thematic issues (such as the national security - civil rights balancing debate)."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
 [3] "The Clinical Youth Law Program is an elective course. Students who have completed 48 units of LAWS courses are eligible to enrol and places are allocated by quality of application and if necessary ballot."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
 [4] "Building on previous public law studies, particularly Australian Public Law, this course aims to deepen student understanding of key aspects of the Commonwealth Constitution and its judicial interpretation by the High Court. Particular attention will be paid to the historical, social and institutional forces which have helped shape the Constitution and the High Court's reading of it. The course includes:"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
 [5] "The Community Law Clinical Program is a 6 unit elective course."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
 [6] "The Contracts course is one of the foundation subjects in the law program and examines a central aspect of the law of obligations."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
 [7] "In contrast to classical jurisprudence critical theory asserts that law is the reflection of the political values. It examines the how law is connected to contemporary political issues, among others, including those related to gender, sexual orientation, race, environment and economics. This course introduces major concepts, questions and perspectives that are important for a critical engagement with the problem of law in contemporary life. It questions the importance and meaning of being 'critical' and interrogates the relationship between law and justice. By following a set of topics fundamental for critical theory the course eflects on the problems of sovereignty, subjectivity, violence, judgment or the nature of government. By applying these critical legal perspectives to a range of contemporary problems and situations the course will show the relevance of critical theory to contemporary study of law and equip the students with the ability to deal with theoretical questions pertaining to issues such as biotechnology, social media, political protest, interdisciplinarity, human rights, social equality or refugee law. This course will review the thought and concepts of the most important critical figures in Western philosophy including Karl Marx, Antonio Gramsci, Giorgio Agamben, Michel Foucault or Jacques Derrida. "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
 [8] "The course is designed to familiarise students with some of the contemporary challenges facing the Australian system of Administrative Law, and to permit them to engage in a scholarly and reflective analysis of the issues involved in cases and issues which are coming before the courts. To best suit the needs of the student body, cases and issues will be examined both from a theoretical and practical dimension. Topics offered may change from time to time. The topic in 2017 will be Administrative Law - at the coalface"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
 [9] "The aim of this course is to assist first year law students who have English as a second language to address and overcome any issues or problems they are experiencing with their legal studies as a result of their lack of English language background. The course takes material from subject areas to which students are exposed in their first year of law studies (Foundations of Australian Law, Torts, Lawyers Justice and Ethics and Contracts) and creates activities designed both to help students to develop a cultural context for their legal studies and to acquire the practical legal skills they will need for their future study and practice.  The following is an example of the kinds of issues that are addressed and skills that are practised:"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
[10] NA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
[11] "The objective of the course is to provide students with an overall understanding of the law of equity with special emphasis on fiduciary obligations, trusts, equitable assignment of propoerty and equitable remedies.  The course will consider the history of equity, basic principles which dominate its jurisprudence and the relevance of equity today; the nature of fiduciary obligations, recognised categories of fiduciaries and the extension of these categories in recent times, breach of fudiciary obligations, defences and remedies for the breach of fiduciary obligations; the requirements for express trusts, the liability of a third party to a breach of trust or fiduciary duty, and the remedies for breach of trust and fiduciary duty, including tracing.  The course then shifts its focus to equity more generally by considering the equitable rules for assignment of property and the remedies of specific performance and injunctions."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
[12] "This course covers important aspects of fact-finding and the adducing and admissibility of evidence in legal proceedings. The course is structured to meet the admission requirements for practice as a legal practitioner in the Australian States and Territories. Particular topics include:investigation and organisation of factual material adducing evidence in court testimonial, real and documentary evidence examination, cross-examination and reexamination of witnesses burden and standard of proof relevance of evidence to facts in issue admissibility rules (e.g. credibility, hearsay, opinion, tendency and coincidence, identification and character evidence), and exceptions privileges judicial discretions and conduct of proceedings. The course will be based on the Uniform Evidence Law, comprising the Evidence Act 1995 (Cth) along with counterpart legislation in New South Wales, Tasmania, Victoria, Norfolk Island, the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. The course also makes reference to law reform perspectives and other legislation.The course is designed to be taken towards the end of the degree. The study of evidence is required for admission to legal practice."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
[13] NA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
[14] NA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
[15] "This course must be taken in the commencing semester of a student's LLB or JD enrolment. Students commencing their legal studies in Semester One are expected to undertake Foundations of Australian Law with LAWS1203 Torts. Students commencing their legal studies in Semester Two are expected to undertake Foundations of Australian Law with LAWS1204 Contracts. This is because the content in the relevant companion course is utilised in various ways in Foundations of Australian Law."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
[16] "The Honours Thesis makes up Part B of the final Honours Examination for students wishing to graduate with an honours degree. For this course a student must complete an honours thesis on a topic of their choice, under the supervision of a member of the academic staff or a person approved by the Course Convenor."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
[17] "The course examines the extent to which and how international human rights standards are present in, or affect, Australian law."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
[18] " This course introduces students to the main principles of Australia's income tax system.  In order to understand the critical function of taxation in the Australian community, the taxation system is studied in its legal, economic, social and political context.  Given the speed with which changes are made to the technical skills of tax law, this course seeks to provide students with an understanding of the principles of the income tax system and tax policy, rather than knowledge of a particular but limited set of technical rules.Topics to be considered include: the concept of income;personal services income;business income;property income;the deductions;the taxation of capital gains;the taxation of fringe benefits;residency, source and double tax agreements;the taxation of trusts and partnerships;the anti-avoidance measures; andtax administration. "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
[19] "This course aims to arm students with an understanding of, and a critical approach to, the law as it applies to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples. Central to the course is an examination of the extent to which Australian law recognises the rights and interests of Indigenous Australians as citizens and as peoples. It presents constitutional, human rights and property law relating to Indigenous peoples in their socio-political, historical and cultural contexts, questioning the adequacy of the current state of the law with a view to possibilities for future law reform. It acknowledges the disproportionately large role of the law in the lives of this arguably overly-regulated but under-protected group of peoples, providing an understanding of some of the central legal issues facing Indigenous Australians, and the impact this has and has had on Indigenous and non-Indigenous peoples. The course covers issues relating to legal definitions of Indigeneity, the relationship between Indigenous Australians and the state, self-determination, racial discrimination, rights to lands and waters, and the place of Indigenous Australians in the world community of Indigenous peoples. As such, it builds on concepts introduced in Australian Public Law, International Law and Property Law."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
[20] "The course aims include to:• Encourage, promote and validate student aspirations to promote access to justice and equality before the law specifically in relation to Indigenous people,• Encourage students to critically consider the effect of the law and is delivery of social justice to Indigenous people.The course provides clinical placement at the Aboriginal Legal Service (NSW/ACT) for 10 students each semester. Attendance requirements include an orientation workshop, onsite participation as a pair on one day a week, participation in weekly tutorials (reviewing relevant substantive areas of law and legal and social issues relating to Indigenous legal 'issues', Indigenous 'perspectives' and Indigenous 'knowledge'.) Assessment requirements: onsite assessment, tutorial participation and preparation & presentation of a written project."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
[21] "This course aims to provide an in-depth analysis of international dispute resolution as a technique for resolving international law disputes. The course will review various types of international dispute resolution mechanisms, with an emphasis on peaceful means of settlement. The whole range of international dispute resolution techniques will be covered, including some which are purely political. In all cases the disputes being considered will be legal ones, though the relevant political dimensions will also be considered. Once an understanding of international dispute resolution techniques has been gained the course will then move on to an in depth consideration of certain international disputes. These disputes will include the Iranian Hostages case, East Timor case (Portugal v Australia), Whaling Case (Australia v Japan; New Zealand intervening). Dispute in specific areas such as international human rights law, and law of the sea will also be separately considered."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
[22] "This course deals with the body of law known as International Law or sometimes 'Public International Law', as distinct from 'Private International Law'. The field of International Law deals with many aspects of the functioning of the international community (including the relations of States with each other and with international organisations); it also affects many activities that occur within or across State boundaries (including the treatment by States of their citizens, environmental law, military operations, and many other areas). The impact of international law on the Australian legal system and the globalised nature of many governmental, judicial and social activities means that a basic knowledge of the terminology, institutions, and substance of international law is not only worthwhile acquiring in its own right, but is also a necessary part of the knowledge and skills of any law graduate."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
[23] NA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
[24] "A participant who has successfully completed this course should:"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
[25] "The course introduces students to the fundamental principles of international trade law. The primary goal of the course is to acquaint and familiarise students with the main pillars in this arena of international law and their effect on domestic law and policy.  The course covers the key agreements and principles of international trade law and the jurisdiction, policies and processes of the WTO. It also encompasses major critical analyses of international trade law together with an in-depth review of relevant GATT/WTO panel and appellate body decisions."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
[26] "The ANU College of Law's internship program offers students an unparalleled opportunity to carry out law-based research projects in a legal professional workplace. The course requires and develops both legal knowledge and a lawyer's approach to problem identification, analysis and recommendations."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
[27] "This course explores the interface of psychology and criminal law. Legal psychology as a sub-discipline of psychology and an example of interdisciplinary study in law is described, and its historical and future development is discussed. Topics usually covered include mental illness and the law, risk assessment, witness memory, investigative interview techniques, detecting deception, profiling, children in court, jury research, correctional psychology, sentencing. Material discussed is primarily of relevance to the Australian legal system. The course offers a critical perspective on legal psychology as well as invites students to be critical about the legal treatment of psychological concepts in statute and case law. Students are also shown how to research the interdisciplinary literature via relevant databases, and are given confidence to research and work with empirical psychological reports."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
[28] "This course ('LJE') builds on the learning outcomes of LAWS1201 Foundations of Law in two significant ways.  First, within the framework of the Australian legal system studied in LAWS1201, LJE examines the role, operation and effect of law in society, focussing on the part that lawyers play as the principal representatives and interpreters of the legal system, and on perceptions of justice in and through law.  Secondly, building on the skills component of LAWS1201, LJE teaches further skills necessary for effective legal study: critical analysis, essay writing and well-reasoned argument."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
[29] "This course explores a number of important theoretical issues concerning law.  These issues include the nature and function of law in modern societies, the nature of citizens' obligations under law, the nature of legal reasoning and the interpretation of legal texts, the relationship between law, power, justice and democracy and the capacity of the law to provide for gender, cultural and other forms of difference. The course proceeds by way of a critical examination of the leading contemporary schools of thought about law and legal issues. In the course of this examination, specific attention may be paid to the perspectives of these schools on such topical issues as civil disobedience, freedom of speech and indigenous sovereignty."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
[30] "The aim of this course is to give students an appreciation of issues involved in administering legislative rules and to teach students ways of preventing these issues during the legislative drafting phase. The course specifically explores how technology can be used throughout the legislative lifecycle."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
[31] "Whether as a philosopher, a lawyer, an activist, a politician, a writer, a diplomat, or a citizen, we face a global world whose enormous challenges require an ability to understand the relationship between law's own discourse and other forms of thinking about and communicating it. From a legal point of view, the Constitution may refer to a specific document or set of documents.  But legal theorists and philosophers recognize that this institutional form is only the tip of the iceberg.  Law, as an expression of collective belonging, is constituted through images and metaphors that bring its concepts to life. As the famous frontispiece to Thomas Hobbes' classic work Leviathan depicts, 'the body politic' is not a ready-made entity, but a complex composition from disparate elements. The problem of how legal order is generated and maintained brings it into close relationship with social, political and aesthetic forms. The shape of our collective relationship to a legal and social order is constantly being made, remade, and unmade. This course draws on the resources of critical theory, philosophy, aesthetics, and legal scholarship, to interrogate urgent contemporary problems pertaining to the establishment and maintenance of legal order and public identity, examining the terms on which we speak of sovereignty, democracy, rights, citizenship, and State violence.  Our interdisciplinary analysis relates these terms to the wider representational frames they inhabit; explores contemporary sites of constitution and deconstitution, including through art, media, and protest; and introduces students to relevant methods and theories."
[32] "The course aims include to: "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
[33] "A participant who has successfully completed this course should have a clear understanding of:"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
[34] "The course will be taught jointly by a visiting ANU academic and an academic from the University of Alabama Law School. (While the specific subject area of the course will vary from year to year, depending on the particular field of interest of the ANU/UA visitors, it will involve a comparative study of Australian and US approaches to the particular subject matter. Assessment details, teaching methods and type of course materials will vary from year to year depending on the subject matter and personnel involved in each offering of the course, but will be specified prior to student enrolment in the course)."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
[35] "With our ageing population succession law is a growing area of practice for legal practitioners. The course examines the law governing succession to property after the death of the owner. Succession law touches every family, and, eventually, all of us."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
[36] "Students enrolled in Bachelor of Laws (Honours) programs from 1 January 2015 have the option to compete for places in Supervised Research Paper.  This course will enable a student to complete, over one semester, a 12 unit course where students write a 13000 word supervised research paper that will take the place of two standard one semester electives in the LLBHons program. Students will organise supervisors according to any supervised allocation process that is required in the semester before the commencement of Supervised Research Paper. "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
