 [1] NA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
 [2] "This course serves as an introduction to the field of Chinese linguistics. A range of Chinese varieties will be studied, with respect to the sound system, lexicon and sentence structure, cultural meanings and the writing system. Students will have the opportunity to work with natural (spoken and written) data to gain an understanding of the similarities and differences across these varieties. We will also consider some of the more unusual features of Chinese languages within the areal perspective of East and Southeast Asia. While this course may be of particular interest with students who have prior knowledge of Chinese, such knowledge is not required. "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
 [3] "The course will examine certain characteristic features of modern Japanese from a general linguistic perspective. A selection of topics will be discussed in conjunction with relevant literature."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
 [4] "Do we see our world through the language we speak or does everyone see the world in the same way? Are all languages equal? What does it mean to speak a dialect of a language? What is language variation? How do we show our identity through language? This course surveys the main concepts and methods used to analyse language within different social settings. Concepts will be illustrated by current and topical examples. Students will also have an opportunity to observe language in its social context."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
 [5] "This course explores the relationship between language and culture, and its implications for translation. Special attention will be given to recent debates on the nature of language, culture and social life, to the interplay between diversity and universals, and to the issues of 'translatability' across languages and cultures."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
 [6] "Social settings involving interaction between speakers of different languages and/or dialects can lead to language change. This course explores such “contact-induced” language change in terms of:"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
 [7] "This course will examine the so-called Papuan languages, which are the 800 or so languages of Melanesia and surrounding areas (from Timor to the Solomon Islands) which do not belong to the Austronesian family - and which are famed as coming from the most linguistically diverse region on earth. These 800 languages belong to perhaps 45 distinct language families and, in around 1% of the world's land area, exhibit a degree of genetic and typological diversity found for the whole of Eurasia. The course will serve both to initiate students into the descriptive and comparative typological study of the Papuan languages and to consolidate and advance their understanding of the principles of language analysis and linguistic theory based on the data from the Papuan languages. It will run along two tracks: (i) a language-specific track, where we will gain in-depth familiarity with one Papuan language (choice will vary from year to year), and (ii) a broad survey of the nature of Papuan languages and the special analytic challenges that they raise for all areas of linguistic science, from phonetics/phonology through morphosyntax and semantics to studies of multilingualism, typology and the mechanisms that create linguistic diversity."
 [8] "Languages are complex systems. For each subsystem, researchers have developed different theories of how the subsystem is internally structured and how it interacts with other parts of the system.  Students will employ and evaluate frameworks for analysing the complexities of a subsytem of the language system, and will set this in the context of particular theories of language."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
 [9] "Elicitation, interpretation and visualisation of phonetic, syntactic, semantic and textual data lie at the heart of linguistics research. These require the use of software tools to create and manage textual, audio and associated video data for a wide range of purposes including language documentation and archiving, language processing, dictionary design, language learning, and the analysis of classroom talk. Students will apply techniques and tools across a range of  areas of linguistic study."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
[10] "The study of language requires both the collection of data and the analysis of that data.  Each of these can be approached in a range of ways, depending on the goals of the study.  In this course, students will consider how their research questions are best answered,  what methods they will use to collect data, and how that data is best analysed.  They will identify and critically evaluate methods of data gathering and interpretation.  They will be guided through writing a part of their own thesis project. This will involve four elements: 1) setting their research question within the relevant research context, 2) identifying the data needed to answer their research question,  3) identifying the methods needed to analyse their data, and 4) drafting a section of the thesis itself."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
[11] "Languages are complex systems with many subsystems, each of which is linked with different theories of how the subsystem is internally structured and how it interacts with other parts of the system.  Students will be exposed to a range of research on theoretical approaches to linguistics subsystems and their interaction, while carrying out in-depth exploration of a particular subsystem.  They will employ and evaluate particular theories of language and its subsystems."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
[12] "Speech is the most important medium through which we convey our ideas, emotions and identity. We investigate the range of sounds used in the world's languages (Phonetics), and the ways they are used (Phonology). The sounds and their use are built up according to structural principles of physics, anatomy, and cognition, and thus we find some similarities, and some fascinating differences, across languages. You will learn how speech sounds are made by the human vocal tract, how they are transmitted acoustically, and how they are perceived. You will systematically describe, recognise and produce the sounds of a language, including learning to manipulate your vocal anatomy and output. You will learn the International Phonetic Alphabet, which linguists use to transcribe a wide range of speech sounds, and understand the principles behind distinguishing contextual variation from linguistically meaningful units. Computer aided phonetic analysis with open source software is introduced and basic quantificational and statistical methods explained. You will obtain skills in a core area of linguistics and a solid background for study in forensic linguistics, historical linguistics, sociolinguistics, linguistic typology, and more."    
[13] "Intensive study of one or more topics in linguistics, through a combination of lectures, prescribed readings, and written analysis. The topics may be studied in conjunction with the Australian Linguistic Institute organised by the Australian Linguistic Society."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
[14] "This course investigates the elements of the English language and how these elements are organised in such a way as to allow speakers and writers to combine them to convey messages which can be instantly decoded by listeners (readers). The emphasis will be on grammar (syntax and morphology), although we will also explore some of the connections between grammar and semantics. In the first and larger part of the course, students will be introduced to the grammar of Standard Modern English, learning terminology and analytical techniques which linguists use to build on and modify traditional grammar. The structural characteristics of English will be compared with those of other languages where appropriate. The last part of the course will deal with variation in English, including regional, social and stylistic variation. Special attention will be paid to 'new Englishes' which have arisen as a result of the learning of English as a second language by people whose first language is not English."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
[15] "In this course, students will develop an advanced understanding of the morphosyntactic structures of human languages, and of the concepts and goals of syntactic analysis to make sense of such structures. Students will gain practical experience in solving syntactic problems, considering data from different languages."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
[16] "This course focuses on the theory and practice of language teaching. Students investigate key areas of linguistic and applied linguistic theory pertinent to language learning and teaching, and how these theoretical approaches can be applied in classroom practice. Students will explore techniques and methods of language teaching as well as how instruction is carried out in a range of teaching contexts, from classroom instruction to online language learning. Students gain insight on language learners, including their learning styles and strategies. They are encouraged to reflect critically on their own learning experiences and apply the course content to any prior teaching experience they may have. The course will equip students with the capacity for an informed, reflective and context-sensitive approach to language teaching."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
