 [1] "Algebra 1 is a foundational course in Mathematics, introducing some of the key concepts of modern algebra. The course  leads on to other areas of algebra such as Galois Theory, Algebraic Topology and Algebraic Geometry. It also provides important tools for other areas such as theoretical computer science, physics and engineering.Topics to be covered include:"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
 [2] "This course introduces the basic concepts of modern algebra such as groups and rings. The philosophy of this course is that modern algebraic notions play a fundamental role in mathematics itself and in applications to areas such as physics, computer science, economics and engineering. This course emphasizes the application of techniques.Topics to be covered include:"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
 [3] "This course is intended both for mathematics students continuing to honours work and for other students using mathematics at a high level in theoretical physics, engineering and information technology, and mathematical economics."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
 [4] "This course is intended both for mathematics students continuing to honours work and for other students using mathematics at a high level in theoretical physics, engineering and information technology, and mathematical economics."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
 [5] "This course continues on from MATH1115, providing an in-depth development of fundamental concepts of calculus and linear algebra, with a particular emphasis on the underlying foundations of mathematics. The use and understanding of proof and abstract ideas, will allow students to develop analytical skills which will form a base for further study in fundamental mathematics as well as providing a foundation for a wide range of quantitative areas such as computer science, engineering, economics, statistics and physics.  "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
 [6] "This course begins an in-depth study of the fundamental concepts of calculus and linear algebra, with a particular emphasis on the underlying foundations of mathematics. The use and understanding of proof and abstract ideas, will allow students to develop analytical skills which will form a base for further study in fundamental mathematics as well as providing a foundation for a wide range of quantitative areas such as actuarial studies, computer science, engineering, economics, statistics and physics."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
 [7] "This course introduces students to key concepts and techniques in advanced algebra. Topics will be taken from contemporary research areas in Algebra. Possible topics include: Algebraic number theory, Analytic number theory, Algebraic geometry and scheme theory, Sheaf theory, Derived and Triangulated categories, Algebraic curves and Riemann surfaces Note: This is an HPC. It emphasizes mathematical rigour and proof and continues the development of modern algebra from an abstract viewpoint."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
 [8] "Algebraic topology studies properties of topological spaces and maps between them by associating algebraic invariants (fundamental groups, homology groups, cohomology groups) to each space. This course gives a solid introduction to fundamental ideas and results that are employed nowadays in most areas of mathematics, theoretical physics and computer science. This course aims to understand some fundamental ideas in algebraic topology; to apply discrete, algebraic methods to solve topological problems; to develop some intuition for how algebraic topology relates to concrete topological problems."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
 [9] "In physics, economics and engineering, we frequently encounter quantities (for example energy) that depend on many variables (such as position, velocity, temperature). Usually this dependency is expressed through a partial differential equation, and solving these equations is important for understanding these complex relationships."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
[10] "The course begins with a detailed discussion of sequence alignment algorithms that are critical for assessing the relatedness of DNA, RNA and amino acid sequences. We then proceed to studying Markov chains and hidden Markov models as important examples of biological models for such sequences. The main algorithms and several applications will be explained. Finally, a broad range of examples of applications of mathematics in biology, both at the molecular and macroscopic level, will be given. The course is accompanied by computer lab sessions to gain practice in the language and environment for statistical and mathematical computing and graphics, R"                                                                                                                                                                           
[11] "This course is designed to show some of the interdependence of mathematics and computing, and is designed for students in both computer science and mathematics."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
[12] "This course introduces students to basic concepts in differential geometry and topology."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
[13] "This course provides a study of the fundamental concepts of calculus and linear algebra. The use and understanding of proof and abstract ideas, will allow students to develop analytical skills which will form a foundation for further study in the quantitative areas of actuarial studies."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
[14] "The emphasis will be on understanding the material so that it can both be applied across a range of fields including the physical and biological sciences, engineering and information technologies, economics and commerce, and can also serve as a base for future mathematics courses. Many applications and connections with other fields will be discussed although not developed in detail. However, the material will not be developed in a rigorous theorem-proof style. Students interested in continuing with mathematics subjects beyond second year should initially enrol in MATH1115. This includes students interested in more mathematical/theoretical aspects of engineering, science and economics."                                                                                                                                    
[15] "This course continues on from MATH1013. It emphasizes an understanding of the fundamental results from calculus and linear algebra which can both be applied across a range of fields including the physical and biological sciences, engineering and information technologies, economics and commerce, and can also serve as a base for future mathematics courses. Many applications and connections with other fields will be discussed although not developed in detail."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
[16] "This course gives a rigorous mathematical introduction to stochastic processes, stochastic differential equations, and their applications in finance. The first half of the course covers martingales, Poisson processes, Brownian motion, Ito integration, and stochastic differential equations driven by a Brownian motion. The second half of the course covers a range of more advanced topics to be selected by the students. This includes option pricing and investment optimisation, basics of Malliavin's stochastic calculus of variations, Black-Scholes formula and hedging, as well as aspects of the relationship between stochastic analysis and partial differential equations.  "                                                                                                                                                       
[17] "The need to protect information being transmitted electronically (such as the widespread use of electronic payment) has transformed the importance of cryptography. Most of the modern types of cryptosystems rely on (increasingly more sophisticated) number theory for their theoretical background. This course introduces elementary number theory, with an emphasis on those parts that have applications to cryptography, and shows how the theory can be applied to cryptography.Number theory topics will be chosen from: the Euclidean algorithm, highest common factor, prime numbers, prime factorisation, primality testing, congruences, the Chinese remainder theorem, diophantine equations, sums of squares, Euler's function, Fermat's little theorem, quadratic residues, quadratic reciprocity, Pell's equation, continued fractions."
[18] "This course introduces important algorithms and techniques of scientific computing, focussing on the area of numerical optimisation. The course will present both theoretical and practical aspects of the algorithms. The course is highly relevant to students from disciplines such as science, engineering or economics where skills in numerical computations are important. "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
[19] NA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
[20] "Selected topics, normally fourth year honours and postgraduate courses, may be made available to undergraduate students. Interested students should consult the year coordinator or attend the honours course meeting on first Monday of each semester."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
[21] "Selected topics, normally fourth year honours and postgraduate courses, may be made available to undergraduate students. Interested students should consult the year coordinator or attend the honours course meeting on first Monday of each semester."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
[22] "The course will discuss the three main classes of equations, elliptic, parabolic and hyperbolic. It is intended both for mathematics students continuing to honours work and for other students using mathematics at a high level in theoretical physics, engineering and information technology, and mathematical economics."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
[23] "Thesis and presentations comprises honours research and two seminar talks. The thesis contributes 47% to the overall mark and the presentations contribute the remaining 3% of the grade.  Honours students are also required to take four 6-unit courses during the year, and students should check the Department of Mathematics third/fourth year course page for a list of available Honours and special topics courses.  MATH4005 is a variable unit course, and students should enrol in a total of 24 units per semester.  "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
