 A non award program offered program offered by the ANU Wide ANU Express is for international students who have just missed out on receiving an offer to study at ANU. It allows high achieving students to be fast-tracked through a preparation program into degree study at ANU. Students in the new Express model will undertake a combination of discipline-specific courses and courses in research for a total of thirteen weeks. Students gain entry to ANU as long as they have met the grade point average set by ANU for their Bachelor degree program. This average is calculated from the four discipline-specific course grade totals that students undertake. Students are required to pass all courses they undertake, including the two non-credited research courses. This is a non-award program. Graduates from ANU have been rated as Australia's most employable graduates and among the most sought after by employers worldwide. The latest Global Employability University Ranking, published by the Times Higher Education, rated ANU as Australia's top university for getting a job for the fourth year in a row. Upon successful completion, students will be able to: 1.    Use language appropriately in a range of academic and socio-cultural contexts;2.    Perform the principles of qualitative and quantitative research;3.    Demonstrate foundational academic knowledge preparatory to their desired undergraduate degree program;4.    Comprehend, meet and apply scholarly expectations and practices of Western university programs and courses in regards to academic integrity, critical enquiry and teamwork;5.    Flourish as independent learners, setting their own schedules and goals and managing their own study patterns The advantage of ANU Express is that it recruits only the highest
 performing students and fast-tracks them.  Admission to all programs is on a competitive basis. Admission to the ANU Express program is based on meeting the ATAR requirement or an equivalent rank derived from the following qualifications: • An Australian year 12 qualification or international equivalent; OR • A completed Associate Diploma, Associate Degree, AQF Diploma, Diploma, AQF Advanced Diploma or Graduate Certificate; OR • At least one standard full-time year (1.0 FTE) in a single program of degree level study at an Australian higher education institution; OR • An approved tertiary preparation course unless subsequent study is undertaken. All applicants must meet the University’s English Language Admission Requirements for Students.  ANU Express is a Regular Degree Program. Domestic applicant entry requirementsThe table below is a guide to the entry level required for domestic applicants. Exact entry level will be set at time of offer. Queensland Band equivalents are a guide only - selection is made on a UAI equivalent that is not available to students.ATAR: 75QLD Band: 12International Baccalaureate: 26  International applicant entry requirementsInternational applicants may view further information on admissions requirements at Entry Requirements for International Undergraduate Applicants. The University reserves the right to alter or discontinue its programs as required.  
 For more information see: http://www.anu.edu.au/students/program-administration/costs-fees
 ANU offers a wide range of scholarships to students to assist with the cost of their studies. Eligibility to apply for ANU scholarships varies depending on the specifics of the scholarship and can be categorised by the type of student you are.  Specific scholarship application process information is included in the relevant scholarship listing. For further information see the Scholarships website. ANU Express requires the completion of 24 units and must consist of: Completion of PREP1117 Independent Research: AdvancedCompletion of a course from the following list: PREP1118 Qualitative Research SkillsPREP1119 Quantitative Research Skills  6 units from completion of a course from the following list: PREP1120 Mathematics: Introduction to CalculusPREP1121 Mathematics: Real Functions and their GraphsPREP1122 Applied English: Essay WritingPREP1123 Applied English: Argument and Debate  6 units from completion of a course from the following list: PREP1124 Business Studies: e-Business and MarketingPREP1125 Business Studies: Accounting ProceduresPREP1126 Physics: Waves and OpticsPREP1127 Physics: Revolutions in Modern PhysicsPREP1128 History: Twentieth CenturyPREP1129 International Studies  6 units from completion of a course from the following list: PREP1130 MicroeconomicsPREP1131 MacroeconomicsPREP1132 Chemistry: Chemical ReactionsPREP1133 Chemistry: BiochemistryPREP1134 Critical Thinking: The Art of the ArgumentPREP1135 Critical Thinking: Critical Thinking in SocietyPREP1136 Legal Studies  6 units from completion of a course from the following list: PREP1137 Extension Mathematics: Linear Algebra and Further CalculusPREP1138 Extension Mathematics: Complex Numbers and General Sequences and SeriesPREP1139 Psychology of LearningPREP1140 Social Psychology  Responsible Officer: Registrar, Student Administration / Page Contact: Website Administrator / Frequently Asked Questions 
                +61 2 6125 5111
                The Australian National University, Canberra
                CRICOS Provider : 00120C
                ABN : 52 234 063 906
            