 A non award program offered program offered by the ANU Wide ANU Achieve is a pathway program in the University Preparation Program (UPP). This program is intended to provide a pathway for students aspiring to study at ANU who do not meet its minimum entry standards.Students in ANU Achieve study courses that contain engaging material relating to research being conducted at ANU; they also receive a foundation in the core skills needed for academic success at ANU. The program structure, which involves high support, small-group sessions, provides an environment in which students can develop as independent learners. The courses are taught on the grounds of the ANU, and immersion in the life of the university is a core feature of this program.Once you have completed ANU Achieve, you can progress into ANU Advance and Activate; the successful completion of these programs will lead to you being able to progress into a Diploma in Liberal Studies, Computing, Creative Design, Science or Music (you must meet extra prerequisites to progress into the Diploma of Music). Graduates from ANU have been rated as Australia's most employable graduates and among the most sought after by employers worldwide. The latest Global Employability University Ranking, published by the Times Higher Education, rated ANU as Australia's top university for getting a job for the fourth year in a row. Upon successful completion, students will have the skills and knowledge to: 1.    Perform independent study and critical analysis of texts and data;2.    Communicate in a range of literacies, including mathematical and digital literacy;3.    Perform academic practices relating to research, including practices in attribution and referencing;4.    Identify and articulate their own goals and aspirations for further study and research at tertiary level. To be considered for the UPP, a student must apply through UAC and be assessed as eligible for entry by ANU Admissions. The program is available only to domestic students (Australian citizens, New Zealand citizens, Australian Permanent Residents or Australian humanitarian visa holders). Students who have not been awarded a Year 12 certificate or equivalent must be 18 years old or older. Applicants with an ATAR below 60, or no ATAR, will be required to undertake a diagnostic test and interview to be determined eligible for entry to the program (students will be advised of the dates of the test and interview upon application). Students may complete an EAS application to support their application. ANU offers a wide range of scholarships to students to assist with the cost of their studies. Eligibility to apply for ANU scholarships varies depending on the specifics of the scholarship and can be categorised by the type of student you are.  Specific scholarship application process information is included in the relevant scholarship listing. For further information see the Scholarships website. The ANU Achieve program requires the completion of 24 units, which must consist of: 18 units from completion of the following compulsory academic skills courses: PREP1010 Achieve LiteracyPREP1011 Achieve Numeracy 6 units from completion of the following compulsory research skills course: PREP1012 Independent Research Proposal: Research Skills and Project Proposal Students are required to pass all courses and achieve a GPA of at least 4/7 to progress to ANU Advance. Students are required to pass all courses and achieve a GPA of at least 6/7 to progress to ANU Activate. Courses with a passing grade cannot be repeated. A student may apply in writing on compassionate and compelling grounds to repeat a course with a failing grade (N, NCN, WN). The Associate Dean (Student Experience), ANU College of Arts and Social Sciences must decide the application and, by written notice given to the student, tell the student whether repeat enrolment has been granted. Students may request a review of the decision by the Deputy Dean (Education), ANU College of Medicine, Biology and Environment and the ANU College of Physical and Mathematical Sciences by written application within 20 working days. Responsible Officer: Registrar, Student Administration / Page Contact: Website Administrator / Frequently Asked Questions 
                +61 2 6125 5111
                The Australian National University, Canberra
                CRICOS Provider : 00120C
                ABN : 52 234 063 906
            