 A non award program offered program offered by the ANU Wide ANU Advance is a pathway program in the University Preparation Program (UPP). It is intended to provide a pathway for students aspiring to study at ANU who do not meet its minimum entry requirements. Students who receive an ATAR of 60-69 are eligible to enter this pathway program, which articulates into the Diploma courses. Equity students or mature age students without an ATAR who perform well on the diagnostic test may be offered Advance as a starting point of their UPP.Students in ANU Advance study courses that contain engaging material relating to research being conducted at ANU; at the same time, they also receive in-depth preparation in the core skills needed for academic success at ANU. The program structure, which involves high support, small-group sessions, provides an environment in which students can develop as independent learners. The courses are taught on the grounds of the ANU, and immersion in the life of the university is a core feature of this program.Once you have completed ANU Advance, you can progress into ANU Activate; the successful completion of this program will lead to you being able to progress into a Diploma in Liberal Studies, Science, Creative Design, Computing or Music (you must meet additional prerequisites to progress into the Diploma of Music). Students who receive a GPA of 5.5 in Advance will be eligible for early entry to a Diploma program. Graduates from ANU have been rated as Australia's most employable graduates and among the most sought after by employers worldwide. The latest Global Employability University Ranking, published by the Times Higher Education, rated ANU as Australia's top university for getting a job for the fourth year in a row.  This program is available for applications to commence from  First Semester, 2018 Upon successful completion, students will have the skills and knowledge to: 1.    Perform the principles of independent research, including topic identification, question design, research methodology design, research process and evaluation;2.    Communicate ideas and research findings with clarity and cohesion;3.    Produce critical responses to texts and data;4.    Plan, organise and complete individual and group research projects   To be considered for the UPP, a student must apply through UAC and be assessed as eligible for entry by ANU Admissions. The program is available only to domestic students (Australian citizens, New Zealand citizens, Australian Permanent Residents or Australian humanitarian visa holders). Applicants to the program are required to: •    Have an ATAR of 60-69 OR •    Undertake a diagnostic test and interview to be determined eligible for entry to the program (students will be advised of the dates of the test and interview upon application). Students may complete an EAS application to support their application. OR •    Complete the UPP Achieve program, with a GPA of 4/7. Students who have not been awarded a Year 12 certificate or equivalent must be 18 years old or older. ANU offers a wide range of scholarships to students to assist with the cost of their studies. Eligibility to apply for ANU scholarships varies depending on the specifics of the scholarship and can be categorised by the type of student you are.  Specific scholarship application process information is included in the relevant scholarship listing. For further information see the Scholarships website. The ANU Advance program requires the completion of 24 units, which must consist of: 18 units from completion of the following compulsory academic skills courses: PREP1013 Advance LiteracyPREP1014 Advance Numeracy 6 units from completion of the following compulsory research skills course: PREP1015 Independent Research Project Students are required to pass all courses and achieve a GPA of at least 4/7 to progress to ANU Activate. Students are required to pass all courses and achieve a GPA of at least 5.5/7 to progress to one of the following Diploma programs: Diploma of ComputingDiploma of Creative ArtsDiploma of Liberal StudiesDiploma of Science Students are required to pass all courses and achieve a GPA of at least 5.5/7, as well as achieve a pass in performance at Grade 8 level of the Australian Music Examinations Board or equivalent, or pass an audition held by the ANU School of Music, to progress to: Diploma of Music Courses with a passing grade cannot be repeated. A student may apply in writing on compassionate and compelling grounds to repeat a course with a failing grade (N, NCN, WN). The Associate Dean (Student Experience), ANU College of Arts and Social Sciences must decide the application and, by written notice given to the student, tell the student whether repeat enrolment has been granted. Students may request a review of the decision by the Deputy Dean (Education), ANU College of Medicine, Biology and Environment and the ANU College of Physical and Mathematical Sciences by written application within 20 working days.   Responsible Officer: Registrar, Student Administration / Page Contact: Website Administrator / Frequently Asked Questions 
                +61 2 6125 5111
                The Australian National University, Canberra
                CRICOS Provider : 00120C
                ABN : 52 234 063 906
            