 
                        A single one year undergraduate degree offered by the ANU College of Business and Economics
 Students who achieve excellent academic performance in their accounting studies will be eligible to join the Honours year. The program extends undergraduate studies in financial accounting, management accounting, auditing and taxation. Students undertake advanced coursework and a research thesis. Classes are conducted in a seminar setting. Students will have the opportunity to interact with research active academic staff, engage in the analysis of advanced accounting issues, and develop critical thinking skills. Students aspiring to the Honours program should consult the Honours Convenor in the Research School of Accounting and Business Information Systems for advice. Students from other universities can also apply for entry.   Graduates from ANU have been rated as Australia's most employable graduates and among the most sought after by employers worldwide. The latest Global Employability University Ranking, published by the Times Higher Education, rated ANU as Australia's top university for getting a job for the fourth year in a row. Upon successful completion, students will have the knowledge and skills to:   An AQF Level 7 Bachelor Degree, or international equivalent, completed within the last two years: The number of places available in the program may be limited by the Dean due to supervisory capacity, and admission to Honours is with the written approval of the Honours Convener.   The National Register of higher education providers is an authoritative source of information that will help you confirm your institution of choice is registered to deliver higher education in Australia. The Quality Indicators for Learning and Teaching (QILT) website is HERE. Based on surveys done by thousands of students across Australia you can find out about universities that interest you, doing side-by-side comparisons. Adjustment Factors do not apply to 1 year honours programs. They do not apply to this program. Commonwealth Supported Place (CSP) 
 For more information see: http://www.anu.edu.au/students/program-administration/costs-fees
 ANU offers a wide range of scholarships to students to assist with the cost of their studies. Eligibility to apply for ANU scholarships varies depending on the specifics of the scholarship and can be categorised by the type of student you are.  Specific scholarship application process information is included in the relevant scholarship listing. For further information see the Scholarships website. This Honours plan requires the completion of 48 units, which must consist of 48 units from completion of the Accounting Honours specialisation.   Once you have met the program requirements of your degree, you may have enough electives to complete an additional elective major, minor or specialisation. Responsible Officer: Registrar, Student Administration / Page Contact: Website Administrator / Frequently Asked Questions 
                +61 2 6125 5111
                The Australian National University, Canberra
                CRICOS Provider : 00120C
                ABN : 52 234 063 906
            